No fewer than 17 corpses have been recovered after gunmen suspected to be on reprisal attacked Unguwar Wakili in Zango Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Speaking with our reporter, the Security Committee Chairman of Atyap Chiefdom Peace and Security Partnership Committee, Phillip Chom, said seven bodies were discovered Sunday morning after the 10 bodies that were previously discovered. Philip said prior to the attack, two Fulani motorcyclists had a misunderstanding with the police on duty at the Ungwan Wakili checking point. On what led to the attack, a resident of Zango Urban community (Hausa/Fulani Community), Mukhtar Imran, said two young Fulani herders: Umar Sambo, 14, and Sufyan Usman, 15, were killed in an ambush. Imran said upon hearing the news of the missing Sambo, one of the Fulani leaders in Zango, Alhali Goma, reported the case to the military and he led them to the scene the same night and left in the early morning of Thursday. “But later the natives of Ungwan Juju produced the corpse of Umar Sambo after the military commandant issue them a warning. The corpse was brought to Zango Urban and was buried accordingly to the Islamic faith,” said Imran. “Again, Saturday evening, two Fulani motorcyclists were passing through Ungwan Wakili when the police at the checkpoint shot one after a misunderstanding. “When the Fulani of Zango went for investigation, the Atyap youth in the area attack them, they shattered some vehicles and burnt down motorcycles belonging to the Fulani,” said Imran. Meanwhile, the local government authorities said in a statement that a 24-hour curfew had been imposed on Ungwan Juju, Mabuhu, Ungwan Wakili and Zangon Urban with immediate effect. The statement issued by the Special Assistant (Media) to Chairman, Zangon Kataf Local Government Council of Kaduna State, Yabo Chris Ephraim, said the curfew was to allow men of the Nigerian Army to restore peace on that axis. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in Kaduna State, SP Muhammad Jalije, confirmed the attack to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) but could not give the casualty figure. “I can confirm that there was an attack, and people were killed, but we are yet to ascertain the exact number of those killed.” Jalije said prior to last night’s attacks, the police had been managing the security situation in the area, following the killing of a herder in the bush four days ago. “Before the attacks, there was something we have been managing for four days now. One boy was killed in the bush while rearing his animals, and we have been on top of the situation before this unfortunate incident,” he added. Meanwhile, the Labour Party governorship candidate, Jonathan Asake, has called for calm over the attack and killing of the villagers. Asake, in a statement issued by his media aide, James Swam, on Sunday called on Governor Nasir El-rufai to be bold and develop the political will to solve the lingering case of incessant killings in the local government in particular and the state in general. He decried a situation where innocent old men and women as well as little children would be attacked and killed in their sleep, describing it as a barbaric act that should never be condoned in any sane society under the rule of law. He lamented that attacks had become a regular affair in the communities around the local government, urging security agencies to swing into action by arresting and prosecuting the criminals.