A leading contender for the Senate Presidency, Senator Jibrin Barau (All Progressives Congress, Kano), has hosted over 70 senators-elect to form the needed bond ahead of the inauguration of the parliament. Barau is the only APC member that won a senatorial seat from Kano State. The other two seats were won by the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP). Barau, who is a third-timer at the upper chamber, is yet to publicly declare his interest to run for the coveted seat, he has deployed his foot soldiers to meet key stakeholders, including ranking federal lawmakers. He currently chairs the Senate Committee on Appropriations. News FCT Muslim pilgrims’ board director assumes duty ECOWAS raises concern over use of fake news ahead of Nigeria polls The meeting was part of the moves to familiarise with the senators-elect and seek their support for his ambition. It was gathered that over 70 senators-elect attended the luncheon held at the NICON Hotel, Abuja on Tuesday. The meeting was held after the presentation of certificates of return to the lawmakers. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had on Tuesday presented certificates of return to at least 98 senators-elect at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, on Tuesday. Seven political parties won senatorial seats, with APC securing majority with 57 seats. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won 29 seats; Labour Party six; New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) two; Social Democratic Party (SDP) two; the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and Young Peoples Party (YPP) one each. A senator-elect, who attended the meeting, said the attendance was not limited to members of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He said senators-elect who are members of other political parties attended the party. “As a second timer at the red chamber, I know Barau because I have interacted with him previously. He has a thorough understanding of parliamentary proceedings and he is an easy-going fellow. He has my vote come June when the 10th assembly will be inaugurated,” the lawmaker, who is from the southern part of the country, said. Another senator-elect from the South-South zone, said: “Barau will surely have my vote for the Senate Presidency, he is a fantastic lawmaker with good leadership qualities. He has been supportive of us from when he was elected to serve as the chairman of the APC Senatorial candidates forum to date.”