The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has urged the women of the state to save him from impeachment by voting for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidates in the forthcoming March 11 governorship and State House of Assembly elections. Obaseki made the plea over the weekend at a meeting with women from the 12 wards in Oredo Local Government of the state to solicit support for the PDP candidates. Represented by his Chief of Staff, Osaigbovo Iyoha, he said his government will sustain reforms and policies to ensure women’s empowerment and welfare. He said the APC are planning to disrupt all the good works the governor is doing in Edo State, calling on the people to stop the plan to disrupt the governor and his developmental strides by rejecting APC candidates. He said, “A vote for the PDP in the House of Assembly elections will help sustain our developmental strides. The election is for Governor Godwin Obaseki to sustain efforts at developing the State and making life more meaningful and better for the Edo people. India-bound bizman nabbed with 9.40kg heroin in Lagos Guber poll: Igbo stakeholders in Lagos endorse PDP candidate He further claimed, “Plans are ongoing by the All Progressives Congress (APC), to rig the March 11 election so as to impeach the governor and stop his developmental programmes which have benefited the people of Edo State. “We are appealing to the people to vote for PDP and stop the enemy of the Edo people from halting our progress as a people. All our votes must be one way. It must be PDP all the way.” On his part, the Director General Edo State PDP Campaign Council, Chief Osaro Idah, appealed to PDP women across the state to mobilize for PDP candidates in the election and ensure they secure their victory in the elections. Moreso, the Woman Leader in Oredo LGA, Meg Aigbokhae, assured the PDP of the women’s support the party needs for victory in the forthcoming election to support the governor to continue with his developmental strides in the State.