Islamic State’s West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists have killed over 200 members of the outlawed Boko Haram insurgents and their family members in a rivalry fight in Gezuwa camp – one of the terrorists’ dreaded enclaves in Bama Local Government Area of Borno State. No fewer than 560 members of the Boko Haram insurgents including top commanders, fighters and abductees have surrendered to the military, sources said. Daily Trust had reported how troops of the 25 Task Force Brigade of Operation Hadin Kai with the help of Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) dislodged Gezuwa and Mantari general areas last month. A top source told Daily Trust that the insurgents surrendered in Bama, Mafa, and Konduga local government areas of Borno State. Our correspondent got a hint that after the military crackdown on the camp, the ISWAP faction took over the camp, which further intensified the rivalry with the insurgent group. “More than 560 people including top commanders, fighters, farmers, women and children have so far surrendered. “As the crisis intensified, top commanders from the Boko Haram faction, including Laminu, who was in charge of the group’s gun trucks, and the handler of other lethal weapons, conceded defeat and decided to surrender to the Nigerian authorities. “Others include Baana Mainari who was Amir Zakkat, a commander in charge of collecting dues and paying levies; K. Sheriff, the Amir Safara in charge of transportation, and Ba’agoyi Munzir, who served as an informant,” a top source revealed. Corroborating, a counter-insurgency expert and security analyst in the Lake Chad, Zagazola Makama, claimed that at least 1,250 fleeing Boko Haram fighters and families have surrendered to Nigerian troops in the country’s North East in the last seven days following a deadly clash with the rival ISWAP that claimed over 200 lives. He said the ISWAP stormed another hideout in Asinari, Ashanari and Masarmari area in Konduga on March 1 and killed scores of other fighters. Makama further explained that the sustained inter-rivalry clash of the groups triggered the massive surrendering of the militants in Mafa, Konduga and Bama local government areas. “So far, we have received 1,250 fighters and their families within one week. This overwhelming number was the highest we have received in a very short period in different parts of the theatre. “The surrendered suspects who also came out with about 1,000 livestock confessed that the ISWAP were after their lives as they do not spare women and children,” Makama added.