The Kano State Police Command has raised the alarm that some politicians are planning to import thugs into the state to disrupt the gubernatorial and state assembly elections. The commissioner of police, Mamman Dauda, in a statement through the command’s spokesman, SP Haruna Kiyawa, said that the “disgruntled politicians” have concluded the heinous plans to make the state ungovernable during the Saturday polls. But the CP warned, “all thugs, mischief makers and miscreants to stay clear of the State as the Command will not relent in its effort at dealing decisively with troublemakers.” CP Dauda also stressed that the command in liaison with other security agencies in the State would ensure the arrest and diligent prosecution of all suspects, adding that thugs arrested would be charged to court alongside their sponsors. Similarly, governorship candidates of nine political parties on Monday issued a joint press conference where they also called on security agencies to go all out to rid the state of thugs said to have been brought in to disrupt the electoral process. Speaking on behalf of the coalition, Sheikh Ibrahim Khalil, gubernatorial candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), said they also got reports that there were “moves to provide security agencies uniform to political thugs during the March 11 governorship election.” They called on “relevant stakeholders especially security agencies, state/National Peace Committees, Human Rights Organisations, International and Domestic Observers and media to do the needful in addressing the unfortunate situation for peace and stability to prevail. “We are also appealing to INEC to mobilise election materials to polling units on time for the process to kick start appropriately. As there are allegations of plans to delay the process, especially in Kano central.” Other governorship candidates that jointly signed the press release are; Bala Muhammad Gwagwarwa (SDP), Sadiq Aminu Wali (PDP), Salihu Tanko Yakasai (PRP), Yakubu Uba Gaya (YPP), Ibrahim Muhammad (APP), Hajiya Aisha Mahmud (NRM), Hajiya Furera Ahmad (Booth Party), and Sha’aban Ibrahim Sharada (ADC). Daily Trust reports that there has been heightened tension in the state for the governorship election, which analysts have said is a battle between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). Several pockets of violence were reported during the campaign period, however, there were violent clashes between supporters of the two parties a day to the presidential election in Kano city while on Election Day, arson and killings were reported in Takai and Tudunwada local governments. The Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Alhassan Ado Doguwa was arrested and arraigned in court on charges of arson and murder over the Tudunwada violence. Daily Trust reports that the 2019 gubernatorial election in the state recorded a high level of violent clashes with casualties.