The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last general elections, Atiku Abubakar, has inaugurated a legal team to challenge the declaration of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as winner. Atiku, while inaugurating the legal team led by Chief J. K. Gadzama (SAN) at his campaign headquarters in Abuja, charged them to “establish the claim of illegality in the February 25, presidential election and reclaim the mandate given to him” by the Nigerian people. Atiku called on the legal team to use the opportunity of the trial to strengthen constitutional democracy in the country. The former vice president said, “It is imperative that they work assiduously in reclaiming the mandate not necessarily because of me and the PDP, but to strengthen democracy and the electoral process and for generations unborn.” Presidential poll aftermath: NSCIA cautions against incitement Guber poll: DSS goes after toublemakers The members of the team include Chief Chris Uche (SAN), Paul Usoro (SAN), Tayo Jegede (SAN), Ken Mozia (SAN), Mike Ozekhome (SAN), Mahmood Magaji (SAN), Joe Abraham (SAN), Chukwuma Umeh (SAN), Garba Tetengi (SAN) and Emeka Etiaba (SAN). Others are Goddy Uche (SAN), Maxwell Gidado (SAN); the National Legal Adviser of the PDP, A. K. Ajibade (SAN);  O. M. Atoyebi (SAN), Mrs Nella Rabana (SAN); Paul Ogbole (SAN); Nuremi Jimoh (SAN) and Abdul Ibrahim (SAN). Meanwhile Atiku on Wednesday issued a statement saying INEC “electoral fraud” will be reversed. In the statement, Atiku said, “As attested to by both local and international observers, the result of the February 25, presidential election as announced by INEC was grossly tainted and did not reflect the will of the electorate. “Nigerians have demonstrated against this blatant injustice through different mediums. And for that, I thank them again for their non-violent conduct despite the provocations. “But all hope is not lost. As citizens desirous of a better Nigeria, we must never give in to apathy. The electoral fraud perpetrated by INEC will be reversed in due course as we step up the cause to reclaim our mandate.”