Although the 2023 Oscars award has come and gone, it would be the talk of the town for a while. From the star-studded red carpet to the recipients of the prestigious award, the night was indeed full of glitz and glamour. The 95th Academy Awards was held on Sunday night at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. Here are some major highlights that took place during the ceremony. A24’s Everything Everywhere All at Once won best picture at the 2023 Oscars on Sunday night, one of seven Academy Awards it received — including prizes for its direction, original screenplay, editing and performances from actors Michelle Yeoh, Ke Huy Quan and Jamie Lee Curtis.  Michelle Yeoh Becomes Oscars’ First Asian Best Actress Winner Michelle Yeoh the ‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’ star is the first woman of full Asian descent — and the second woman of colour — in 95 years to win in the lead actress category. In a four-decade career already marked by trailblazing and unprecedented achievement for female performers, Michelle Yeoh just notched a big one: becoming the first Asian woman to win the Academy Award for best actress. After bagging Grammy Awards, Tems gets shot at Oscars Oscars slap: Chris Rock rips Will Smith apart on stage Yeoh’s Oscar-winning performance in A24’s Everything Everywhere All at Once was the first time the Malaysia-born actress had been No. 1 on a Hollywood call sheet, playing a struggling laundromat owner and lifelong loser who finds herself the saviour of the multiverse (and learns to reconcile with her long-suffering husband and estranged daughter in the process).  Brendan Fraser Makes Hollywood Comeback, Bags Best Actor Award Brendan Fraser won best actor for another A24 film, The Whale. His performance in the film has been considered a comeback for the actor. During his speech, the actor thanked The Whale director, Darren Aronofsky, for throwing him “a creative lifeline.” He said, “I’m grateful to Darren Aronofsky for throwing me a creative lifeline and hauling me aboard the good ship The Whale. … It couldn’t be done without my cast. It’s been like a diving expedition on the bottom of the ocean and the air on the line to the surface is on a launch being watched over by some people in my life.”  Ke Huy Quan Wins Best Supporting Actor Oscar After Decades-Long Absence From Screens Ke Huy Quan won the Oscar for best-supporting actor for his role in Everything Everywhere All at Once, delivering an emotional speech to a standing ovation from the audience. “Mom, I just won an Oscar!” he said, noting that his road to the Oscars was long and unexpected. “My journey started on a boat,” said Quan, who fled Vietnam with his parents in 1978. “I spent a year in a refugee camp, and somehow, I ended up here on Hollywood’s biggest stage. Stories like this only happen in the movies.”  Ruth E. Carter Makes History With Best Costume Design Win for ‘Black Panther: Wakanda Forever’ Carter, who previously won in 2019 for ‘Black Panther,’ becomes the first Black woman to win two Oscars and the first designer to win for both an original film and its sequel. Carter dedicated her historic win, as the first Black woman to win two awards in any category, to her late mother, who passed away last week: “This [movie] prepared me for this moment,” Carter said, also honouring Black Panther star Chadwick Boseman. “Chadwick, please take care of Mom.”  Best Picture “Everything Everywhere All at Once” (Daniel Kwan, Daniel Scheinert and Jonathan Wang, producers) Best Director Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert, “Everything Everywhere All at Once” Best Actress Michelle Yeoh, “Everything Everywhere All at Once” Best Actor Brendan Fraser, “The Whale” Jamie Lee Curtis, “Everything Everywhere All at Once” Ke Huy Quan, “Everything Everywhere All at Once” “Everything Everywhere All at Once” (Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert) Adapted Screenplay “Women Talking” (Sarah Polley) Editing “Everything Everywhere All at Once” (Paul Rogers) Original Song “Naatu Naatu,” by M.M. Keeravaani and Chandrabose (“RRR”) Original Score “All Quiet on the Western Front” (Volker Bertelmann) Animated Short “The Boy, the Mole, the Fox and the Horse” (Charlie Mackesy and Matthew Freud) Costume Design “Black Panther: Wakanda Forever” (Ruth E. Carter) Makeup and Hairstyling “The Whale” (Adrien Morot, Judy Chin and Annemarie Bradley) Cinematography “All Quiet on the Western Front” (James Friend) Live-Action Short “An Irish Goodbye” (Tom Berkeley and Ross White) Visual Effects “Avatar: The Way of Water” (Joe Letteri, Richard Baneham, Eric Saindon and Daniel Barrett) International Feature “All Quiet on the Western Front,” Germany (Edward Berger) Sound “Top Gun: Maverick” (Mark Weingarten, James Mather, Al Nelson, Chris Burdon and Mark Taylor) Production Design “All Quiet on the Western Front” (Christian M. Goldbeck and Ernestine Hipper) Documentary Feature “Navalny” (Daniel Roher, Odessa Rae, Diane Becker, Melanie Miller and Shane Boris) Documentary Short “The Elephant Whisperers” (Kartiki Gonsalves and Guneet Monga) Animated Feature “Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio” 