 The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has removed the name of the embattled Leader of the House of Representatives, Alhassan Ado Doguwa, from the list of election winners. The electoral body had declared him as the winner of the February 25, election for Doguwa/Tudunwada Federal Constituency of Kano State. The returning officer, Professor Ibrahim Adamu Yakasai, earlier announced that Doguwa of the All Progressives Congress (APC) polled 39,732 votes to defeat his closest rival, Yushau Salisu Abdullahi, of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) who polled 34,798 votes. But in the newly released list of members-elect, Doguwa’s name was conspicuously missing. In the remark section, INEC stated that the declaration was made under duress. Prof Yakasai, in a letter dated February 27, said that he made the declaration under duress for fear of losing his life and other INEC officials who were with him. In the letter addressed to Prof Mahmood Yakubu, INEC chairman, Yakasai also said the collation area was under siege by thugs threatening to burn down the INEC facility if he did not declare the result within one hour. Daily Trust reports that following the violence recorded in the constituency after the election, Doguwa was arrested by the police for his alleged role in the killing of several persons and burning of the secretariat of NNPP, an allegation the lawmaker has denied. The police confirmed that at least three persons were killed while the campaign secretariat of the NNPP in Tudunwada was set ablaze with two persons burnt to death. Doguwa was thereafter taken before a magistrate’s court on the charges of murder, arson and unlawful possession of firearms and was subsequently remanded in prison. But a Federal High Court in Kano on Monday admitted the embattled lawmaker to N500m bail, but barred him from his constituency during the forthcoming gubernatorial and state assembly elections. Meanwhile, INEC has said that Doguwa had 30 days to challenge its decision in court. A senior official of the commission told Daily Trust that it was only the courts that could reverse the decision of the electoral body. The official also said that the commission would have to conduct a re-run election for the constituency. He, however, declined further comments when asked if INEC would accept Doguwa in the re-run if his or another party submitted his name as candidate. 