Presidential Candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has charged party supporters in Edo State to sustain the February 25 election momentum and win the 24 seats in the state house of assembly in the forthcoming March 18 election. Labour Party polled the highest votes in Edo during the presidential election despite the fact that the state is under the control of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). During a thank-you visit to the state, Obi charged the electorate not to be discouraged by the outcome of the presidential election, encouraging them to come out en masse to vote for Labour Party candidates on Saturday. He said Nigerians had begun a new movement, through Labour Party, which no one can stop. “Nigeria must not be allowed to remain the way it is, there must be a paradigm shift for a better and a prosperous Nigeria. We have begun the journey of a new Nigeria and nobody will stop it, We will not allow Nigeria to remain the way it is. “I am here to thank you for the feat recorded on February 25, we will vote for Labour Party come March 18,” Obi said. He said the party would organise a retreat for candidates who have emerged victorious in the just concluded national assembly elections and the ones to be conducted on the 18th of March so that they can do things differently and change the political narratives of the country. On his part, the party national chairman, Julius Abure, said the party’s candidates for the house of assembly election were not sponsored by any other parties or candidates. According to him, because the people of the state have rejected their parties, they are looking for how they could attach themselves to Labour Party to win the election. Earlier, the state chairman of the party, Kelly Agbaloi, said the endorsement of the candidate by Obi showed that the party is not in any alliance with any other party for the state assemblies election. While commending the presidential candidate of the party, Peter Obi and the national chairman of the party, Julius Abure for visiting the state, saying “your presence have further boosted the confidence of all the Obidients supporters in the state.” Daily Trust reports that Obi who moved from New Benin Market through Mission Road, Sapele Road before climaxing at Adesuwa Road, was greeted with a mammoth crowd of supporters.