Buoyed by the outcome of last Saturday’s presidential election in Lagos where the Labour Party (LP) defeated the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), there is an ongoing move by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Labour Party (LP) to form an alliance, multiple sources confirmed to Daily Trust yesterday. The meeting is being spearheaded by some elders of the parties in a bid to form a formidable alliance against the ruling party ahead of the March 11 governorship election. Sources said there is a hurdle to be crossed as the discussion continues. The hurdle has to do with who steps down between the two candidates- Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adediran popularly known as Jandor of the PDP and Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour of the LP. The LP is said to be banking on the success recorded in last Saturday’s election to claim superiority in the alliance talks. Merchants of Fake News Have Failed &#8211; Buni ECOWAS raises concern over use of fake news ahead of Nigeria polls Daily Trust reports that already, there is an existing personality clash between Jandor and Rhodes-Vivour who was in the PDP before defecting to LP. Prior to Jandor’s emergence as the PDP candidate, Rhodes-Vivour had stepped down for him with the hope of emerging as his running mate. But Jandor went for the ace Nollywood actress, Ms Funke Akindele, which irked Rhodes-Vivour who subsequently jumped ship to LP to pick the governorship ticket. PDP seeks alliance with opposition parties in Kwara Similarly, the PDP in Kwara State said it has concluded arrangements to team up with opposition parties ahead of the March 11 governorship and state house of assembly elections in the state. Speaking at the unveiling of a five- point agenda by the PDP governorship candidate, Alhaji Shuaib Yaman Abdullahi, in Ilorin, the state chairman of the party, Hon. Babatunde Mohammed, said other opposition parties in Kwara were united to form an alliance to “vote out APC.” He said, “We are on the same page with other political parties in the next election, with the exception of APC. We are working together already. The other political parties in Kwara State also believed in unison because they have agreed with us to work as a team as a strategy to oust the present APC in the next governorship poll.” Babatunde advised party members not to allow the last week scenario to demoralise them, saying, “We should be at our various towns and villages at the right time to be fully prepared for the polls.”