Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has drummed support for the emergence of Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State as Senate president in the 10th National Assembly. Governor Umahi of the APC won the February 25 National Assembly election to represent Ebonyi South in the 10th assembly. Ohanaeze Ndigbo’s Secretary General, Mazi Okechuwu Isiguzoro, in a statement Sunday, said the South East should produce the next Senate president in the interest of equity and fairness. “For the interest of unity, for the gains of Umahi’s proven commitment to one Nigeria, infrastructure and human development, also for the Igbo interest and need to galvanise support for our long sought chance to have one of us stride to presidency in the near future, we seek the support of all to enthrone Umahi as the next Senate president,” Isiguzoro said. Similarly, the State Working Committee of APC in Ebonyi State led by Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, has in a statement appealed to the national leadership of the party to consider Umahi for Senate presidency. Meanwhile, as the race for the speakership of the 10th House of Representatives gathers momentum, an Abuja-based social affairs analyst, Cham Faliya Sharon, has called on the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone the position to the North Central. She specifically said the party should support the aspiration of the incumbent deputy speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase, to become the Speaker of the House. Sharon in a statement in Abuja yesterday said the APC should, as a matter of reward for loyalty and faith in its ideologies, zone the position to the North Central, and support Hon. Idris Wase as its preferred choice for the speakership. “Since the 2015 general elections to date, a significant section of the North Central region has maintained an unalloyed support for the APC, and it will be just and noble to appreciate this support and loyalty by ceding this important national office to them so that the party can expand and maintain its hold in the region,” she said. 