More than at any other time in the history of Nigeria, the country’s security, stability, and freedom have been threatened, endangered, and tampered with in the last few years. Terrorism and banditry have regularly increased in the North and some parts of the country’s southern regions. So, it is evidently clear on the faces of ordinary Nigerians that they are helpless, having faced continuous insecurity challenges. First, they have no direct access to people in authority when their lives are endangered. Second, they have few resources or the means of telling their plights through media houses, and even reaching the international community. However, some media have been trying with human-angle reports and serving as voice of the voiceless. Last, there is a limit to how the people can defend themselves when attacked, especially those in villages who increasingly lose their lives and properties. Navy, NASENI partner to build made-in-Nigeria ships IWD: Cross River women seek release of kidnapped commissioner And most victims of these terrorist attacks become internally displaced and live in IDP camps with nothing, except food provided in the camps by good-spirited individuals, groups and organisations. In search of a solution, therefore, Nigerians have developed an unending quest for change. But the question remains, “How do we get the solution and WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE?” Martin Luther King Jr. was the first to coin the phrase, “where do we go from here?” which is also the title of a speech he presented to the SCLC Convention during the Civil Rights Movement of 1955-1968. He presented this speech in Atlanta, Georgia, in 1967, raising questions on national issues like racism, marginalisation, injustice and segregation of minority groups in the United States. Ever since, many international social justice groups and national freedom fighters have used this same question to reflect on challenging times in people’s lives, especially when dealing with national issues. So, since Nigeria’s current security challenges are not improving, we all need to come together and ask ourselves this same question: “Where do we go from here?” My thinking differs slightly from Martin Luther King Jr. because I am asking questions on issues relating to migration, immigration, and transmigration. Should we flee our homes, villages and cities because our lives are no longer secure? Should we continue to live in fear even in our ancestral homes? Nigeria was applauded by other West African nations for the heroic role it played in their nation’s peace and security architecture. The Liberian War, 1989-1997, remains historical to Nigerian veterans recruited in record numbers to help restore peace to Liberia. We lost veterans to that war, but our brave and heroic acts will always be remembered in West Africa and beyond. Today, those veterans sit at home and read many news headlines on how ordinary citizens threaten to break apart Nigeria’s security and stability. Sadly, we hear leaders and security chiefs say nebulous things about the current security situation in Nigeria, which suggest they too are at a loss as at what to do about it. Yet they often cover-up with sayings like, “We are on top of the situation”, “We will bring the perpetrators to book….”. Thereafter, we will see these criminals release a video clip online with a more assured and bold threat. More annoying is the reality that as the common people are being helplessly killed, some politicians and other individuals move around with numerous security details to guard them, their children, and their families against criminals. This tells us that the solution to insecurity is to have many well-equipped security guards in every community or provide the community with a functional and equipped security network. These helpless Nigerians voted for these politicians, and so deserve better lives. The ordinary Nigerian does not mind if the nation asks for help from other nations to help curb terrorism, banditry, kidnapping and other violent crimes. The Nigerian people have no other country to call theirs or even run to besides Nigeria. So, let’s only hope, pray and make endeavours for Nigerians to unite and prosper despite our ethnic, religious, or regional differences. No matter how far Nigerians go internationally, they are still called Nigerians in ‘the Diaspora.’ To the international community, it is disturbing to see how they kind of turned a blind eye to what has been happening in Nigeria for years, as if Nigeria does not belong to the United Nations. When crises occur in other parts of the world, it immediately responds to those regions and nations, but not Nigeria. Nigeria dearly needs you now. We know the United Nations has contributed material support to victims of terrorism in many parts of Nigeria. The material support is much appreciated, but the ordinary Nigerian wants more interventions like they have been doing in other parts of the world. We need your presence in Nigeria. Unless you do this for Nigerians, we will continue to question the status and place of ordinary people in the eyes of the United Nations and whether or not you value our lives. But it is worrisome to see how you dine and wine with many Nigerian politicians instead of pushing them to be good stewards of the people they lead. We thought that when they approach foreign countries for a loan, you will use that opportunity to have them give an account of what is happening in their states, region or nation. No governor should be granted foreign loans if they do not secure the lives and property of their citizens. Perhaps this could help the ordinary Nigerian citizen enjoy the dividends of democracy. We are not asking for too much, only peace, security, and stability. To our gallant soldiers, police and other security outfits, thank you for all your sacrifices. To join the Nigeria Police Force or the army is a sacrifice, because you would have chosen a different career other than the police or the military. It takes a brave person to remain in the army or police when terrorists target innocent uniformed officers. I salute your courage. We implore you to continue working hard with the little resources you have to protect the ordinary Nigerian.  Nigerians watch every sacrifice you make, and they appreciate it. If we all come together and work toward a new Nigeria, a working Nigeria, everyone will enjoy it, politicians, security men and women, and ordinary people. God bless Nigeria!  Sir  Kefas lectures at the University of Iowa, USA kefas-lamak@uiowa.edu