The Kano State Agro-Pastoral Development Project (KSADP) has constructed and commissioned a N100 million storage facility and accessories for Kano Fura da Nono Cooperative Union, Kofar Wambai Market, a major dairy interest group in the state. The edifice, constructed on land belonging to the association, is equipped with cooling facilities to curtail frequent product spoilage. A statement issued by Project Communication Specialist Ameen K. Yassar, on Monday, said fura da nono is a nutritious gruel prepared from fermented milk and millet balls, consumed across Nigeria, especially in the northern part of the country. “During the commissioning ceremony of the project, the KSADP coordinator, Malam Ibrahim Garba Muhammad, explained that “it is part of the commitment of the Islamic Development Bank and the Lives and Livelihoods Fund, to improve the well-being of the people through enhancing the dairy value chain,’’ the statement said. Kangiwa launches strategic plan for Nigerian Polo I did not loot Kaduna treasury &#8211; El-Rufai “With the storage facility in place, safer milk and milk products can be guaranteed, and this will lead to improved nutrition for consumers and increased income for members of the association,” he said. The coordinator added that three walkways leading to the milk section of the Kofar Wambai market have been paved for better hygiene, while a shed has been constructed in the area to prevent exposure to heat and rain. “In addition, Malam Ibrahim inaugurated grants consisting of electronic blenders, mini generating sets, cool boxes and aluminum milk collection bowls provided by KSADP to 300 members of the cooperative union, to promote best practices in selling milk and milk products in Kano.’’ According to the statement, the chairman of the Fura da Nono Cooperative Union, Malam Muhammad Lawan Alaramma, expressed appreciation to the Islamic Development Bank and the Lives and Livelihoods Funds for initiating and financing what he described as “an unprecedented revolution in dairy product marketing in Kano”. “The commissioning of the project was performed by the State Commissioner for Agriculture, Dr Jibrin Yusuf Rurum, who commended KSADP for living up to its mandate, and restated the determination of the state government to revamp agriculture, in view of its huge potential for food security, job creation and poverty alleviation.’’ 