A nursing mother has reportedly abandoned her baby boy while running from hoodlums, popularly known as Sara-Suka, who invaded her area in Minna, Niger State. City & Crime gathered that the incident happened on Thursday at the Gbeganu area when the hoodlums in their large numbers attacked residents and burgled shops. The woman, who was cut up in the attack, couldn’t run conveniently with her baby as she fell to the ground and let go of the baby. The leader of Gbeganu-Sir-Block Industry community, Mallam Abdullahi  Ibrahim, told our reporter that it took the intervention of vigilantes and the personnel of the anti-drug corps – a private security outfit – to rescue the baby and take him to a hospital. Nasarawa gov deplores calls for Adamu’s resignation Ex-gov’ship aspirant, others dump PDP in Ondo “Before now, our community was known to be very peaceful. But the area has become unsafe. For the past two days we couldn’t sleep. “A woman was running because of these boys who invaded our area and threw away her little baby boy which she was holding. It was vigilantes and the Anti-Drug Corps (ADC) that came to our rescue that day. The baby was taken to the hospital and he is fine now. But up till now, we don’t have a rest of mind,” he said. Ibrahim, who appealed to state government and security operatives to come to their aid, added that, “There was a time these hoodlums came to our community and burgled six shops. They also beat and injured one of the shop owners before stealing things in his shop. The shop owner was admitted for three days.” Also speaking, Dr Malik Abdulganiyu of Unguwan Zaka, Gbeganu, said, “Last week, these hoodlums unleashed mayhem on my community. They operated in the night with weapons. It’s unfortunate that these children are allowed to cause us pain.” Zaka, who called on parents to prevail on their wards to stop their nefarious activities, believing that “parents cannot claim to be unaware of this development, also called on government to create jobs and engage youths to reduce restiveness and idleness, noting that each time they started, residents were not spared, leading to loss of lives and property. 