The outcome of the February 25 National Assembly elections has shown that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will retain majority seats when the 10th House of Representatives would be inaugurated in June this year, Daily Trust on Sunday reports. The life of the 9th House of Representatives, which was inaugurated in June 2019, will come to an end in June 2023 when the 10th House of Representatives is expected to be inaugurated. Daily Trust on Sunday reports that results so far declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) across the states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) showed that the All Progressives Congress (APC) has won 162 seats; Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), 102; Labour Party (LP), 34; New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), 18; All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA),4; African Democratic Congress (ADC), 2; Social Democratic Party (SDP),  2 and Young Progressives Party (YPP) has one seat making a total of 325 There is a total of 360 seats in the House of Representatives. While the House of Representatives election results have been declared in many federal constituencies across the country, results in a couple of constituencies are yet to be ready as elections were declared inconclusive by the electoral umpire due to various factors. In some other states where the elections have been concluded in the federal constituencies, there are still delays in making the outcome public. Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mahmood Yakubu, while giving an update on the National Assembly elections yesterday said, in the House of Representatives, 325 out of 360 seats have been won by eight political parties. He noted that in terms of parties’ representations, the 10th National Assembly would be the most diverse since 1999. He said certificates of return will be presented to Senators-elect on Tuesday March 7 while the House of Representatives-elect will get theirs on Tuesday, March 8 The results collated are those so far available from Abia, Kaduna, Edo, Oyo, Taraba, Kebbi, Sokoto, Ekiti, Yobe, Plateau, Gombe, Katsina, Akwa Ibom. Others are Bauchi, Bayelsa, Anambra, Kano, Benue, Kogi, Kwara, Ondo, Rivers, Nasarawa, Osun, Niger, Zamfara, Lagos, Imo, Ebonyi, Cross River, Jigawa, Delta, Rivers and the FCT. In Anambra, LP won 5 seats, APGA 4 and the Young People’s Party (YPP), 1. In Kano, the NNPP took the day with 17 seats, the APC trailing with 6 seats, while one seat was declared inconclusive. In Kogi, the APC won 5 seats while PDP and the African Democratic Party (ADC) got 1 seat each. In Kwara State, the APC won all the 6 seats. In Ondo, APC won 8 seats while the PDP got 1. In Nasarawa, available results showed that the APC, Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the PDP secured 1 seat each. In Osun, the PDP won all 9 seats while APC got none. In Niger, APC got 7 seats while the PDP secured 3. In Lagos, the APC secured 24 seats, LP 3 and PDP, 1. In Ebonyi, available results so far showed that the PDP and LP have one seat each. In Cross River State, results showed that the APC won 6 seats while PDP got 2. In Jigawa, the APC secured 8 seats; PDP 2, while the NNPP has 1. In Delta, PDP won 6 seats while the LP won 2. In Rivers, results showed that the PDP won 9 seats while LP and APC won 1 seat each. In Imo, PDP won 3 seats, APC got 3 while LP won 2. Results of two federal constituencies were declared inconclusive. In Delta, Thomas Erieyitomi of the PDP won the Warri federal constituency; Mr Benedict Etanabene of Labour Party won the Okpe, Sapele, Uvwie federal constituency; Nnamdi Ezechi of the PDP won the Ndokwa/Ukwuani constituency, while Erhiatake Ibori of the PDP won the Ethiope federal constituency. Also, Jonathan Ukodhiko of the PDP won Isoko federal constituency; Julius Gbabojor Pondi of PDP was re-elected for the Burutu federal constituency; Mrs Ngozi Okolie of Labour Party won the  Aniocha/Oshimili federal constituency, while Victor Nwokolo of the PDP was re-elected for Ika South constituency. In Lagos, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila won Surulere I; Hammed Adewale of the APC won Agege; Kalejaiye Adeboye of APC won Ajeromi/Ifelodun; Ganiyu Ayuba of APC won Alimosho; George Adegeye of LP won Amuwo-Odofin; Adedayo Olumuyiwa of APC won Apapa; Sesi Whingah of APC won Badagry; Raji Olawale of APC won in Epe; Thaddeus Attah of Labour Party won in Eti-Osa; Okunlola Lanre won Surulere II, while Balogun Olusegun of the APC won in Ibeju-Lekki. Other APC candidates who won include Olabinjo Adeyemi (Ifako-Ijaiye), Faleke Abiodun (Ikeja), Benson Adegoke (Ikorodu), Ogbara Kafilat (Kosofe), Badru Dolapo (Lagos IslanD I), Akiolu Kayode (Lagos Island II), Moshood Oshun (Lagos Mainland), Alli Taofik (Mushin I), Fayinka Toyin (Mushin II), Obasa Tajudeen (Ojo) Ademorin Kuye of APC won Somolu while Dawodu Ayinla won Oshodi-Isolo I. Also, Okey Joe of the LP won Oshodi Isolo II. In Niger, Joshua Audu Gana of the PDP won Mokwa/Lavun/Edati federal constituency; Abubakar Abdul Buba of PDP won Chanchaga constituency; Saidu Musa Abdul of APC won Bida/Gbako/Katcha constituency; Abdullahi Idris Garba of APC won Kontagora/ Mariga/Mashegu/Wushishi/ constituency. In the same vein, Adamu Tanko Lokoja Suleja of the PDP won Tafa/Gurara federal constituency;Yusuf Kure Baraje of APC won Bosso/Paikoro constituency; Ja’afaru Mohammed of APC won Agwara/ Borgu constituency;Mahmud Abdullahi of APC won Agaie/Lapai constituency; Ismail Musa Modibbo of APC won Rafi/Shiroro/Munya constituency (APC) while Abdullahi Shehu also of APC won Magama/Rijau constituency. Results from Abia showed that Aba South/North federal constituency was won by Emeka Nnamani of the LP; Arochukwu/Ohafia constituency won by Ibe Okwara-Osonwa of LP; Bende constituency was won by Benjamin Kalu of the APC; Ikwuano/Umuahia federal constituency was won by Obi Aguocha of LP; Isialangwa North/South constituency was won by Ginger Onwusibe of LP; Isuikwuato/Umunneochi constituency was won by Amobi Ogah of LP while Obingwa/Osisioma/Ugwunagbo constituency was won by Munachim Alozie of the LP. In Kano, those won by the APC include Doguwa/Tudunwada (Alhassan Ado Doguwa); Dambatta/Makoda (Hamisu Chidari); Kunchi/Tsanyawa (Sani Bala); Shanono/Bagwai (Yusuf Ahmad Badau); Gwarzo/Kabo (Abdullahi Muazu) and Bichi (Engineer Kabir Abubakar). Others are Tofa/DawakinTofa/RiminGado (Abdulkadir Tijjani Jobe); Rano/Kibiya/Bunkure (Alhassan Kabir Rurum), Gwale (Garba Diso), Kumbotso (Idris Dankawu), Kura/Madobi/Garun (Malam Yusuf Datti Kura); Dawakin Kudu/Warawa (Barrister M. D Muhd Hassan), Tarauni – (Mukhtar Yarima), Nassarawa (Hassan Hussain), Ungogo/Minjibir (Sani Adamu Wakili), Gezawa/Gabasawa (Idris Chiroma); Dala (Ali Madaki); Kano Municipal (Engineer Sagir Koki) Kiru/Bebeji (Abdulmumin Jibrin Kofa); Karaye/Rogo (Abdullahi Sani Rogo); Takai/Sumaila (Barrister Rabiu Ibn Yusuf); Gaya/Ajingi/Albasu (Dr. Ghali Mustapha Tijjani) and Garko/Wudil (Abdulhakim Kamilu Ado),  while Fagge was declared inconclusive. Minority leader, deputy majority whip, others crash out Daily Trust on Sunday reports that the outcome of the parliamentary election showed major upsets as a number of the lawmakers lost their return bids to the 10th House of Representatives due largely to the Peter Obi’s Labour Party and Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso’s NNPP ‘tsunami’. Among those that lost their return bids are some principal officers in the 9th House of Representatives. The House Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu of the (PDP) lost his seat to the Labour Party (LP) candidate, Ngozi Okolie in Aniocha/Oshimili federal constituency of Delta State. Mr Elumelu polled a total of 33,456 votes, while the LP candidate polled a total of 53,879 votes to emerge winner as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission’s returning officer, Prof Kenneth Ibe. He was elected into the lower chamber for the first time in 2007 and would have been heading for his fifth term in June but for his defeat. In the same vein, the deputy whip of the House of Representatives and member representing Isuikwuato/ Umunneochi constituency, Nkiruka Onyejeocha, lost her bid to return to the House after 16 years. She lost to the Labour Party candidate, Amobi Ogah. Similarly, the Minority Whip of the House of Representatives, Gideon Lucas Gwani of the PDP lost Kaura constituency of Kaduna State to the Labour Party candidate, Mathew Kozali. Koazali polled 10,508 voted ahead of Gwani, who polled 10,297 votes. In the same vein, the Deputy Minority Whip and member representing Ijebu-North/East/Ogun Waterside constituency of Ogun State, Segun Adekoya, failed in his bid to secure his seat. Adekoya, who contested on the platform of the PDP, lost to the candidate of the APC, Adegbesan Joseph. Besides the principal officers who lost their return bids, many other old time lawmakers lost their return bids mostly to first timers. However, a number of old faces survived the electoral tsunami and will be part of the 9th House of Representatives. Among them is the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila (Lagos, APC), who is returning for the record 6th time. Other old faces include Deputy Speaker Idris Wase (Plateau, APC); Majority Leader Alhassan Ado Doguwa (Kano, APC) and Deputy Majority Leader, Peter Akpatasan (Edo, APC), just to mention a few. New faces to dominate 10th House of Reps Going by the outcome of the National Assembly election, the 9th House of Representatives when inaugurated in June will be dominated largely by new faces on the account of high legislative turnover. The implication of this is that the 9th House of Representatives will have fewer experienced lawmakers with institutional memories while efforts have to be invested in training the new lawmakers to be up to speed in terms of legislative knowledge and processes.