Presidential Candidate of Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 election, Mr. Peter Obi, has said the problem of Nigeria is accepting what is wrong and unacceptable as God’s wish for the country. Obi said this on Monday, while featuring on ARISE Television’s Morning Show. He was reacting to the position of some Nigerians that the outcome of this year’s presidential election, should be seen and accepted as the wish of God. But Obi said God does not wish bad things for people and that this is what the Obidient Movement is trying to change. “The problem of Nigeria is accepting what is unacceptable. That’s not God’s wish. God’s wish is when you do the right thing. Is it God’s wish that we remain poor as a country despite his abundant blessings on us?” Obi said. On the possible partnership with the PDP, Obi said that there is nothing like that but that they are challenging a process that is wrong created by INEC to serve a particular purpose. The former Anambra State governor said that Nigeria has remained decadent in a continuous state of moral decline
because many citizens keep accepting what is wrong and dragging God into it. He, however, said the Obidient Movement is in the system to change it and create a new egalitarian society. He said, “It is a saddening fact that after 63 years as a nation, Nigeria is yet unable to conduct a good election. The February 25 presidential election is the worst in Nigeria’s history considering that the Electoral Law of 2022 was enacted to ensure free, fair and credible elections.” Obi said while he is pursuing his mandate through legal and peaceful means, it is disheartening that rule of law is being treated with levity by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) which is a public institution maintained by taxpayer’s money. He said what he is challenging is the process and he does not hope to back out until the right thing is done because doing and accepting the wrong thing is what has kept the nation down. On some insinuations on him from some aides speaking for their principals, Obi said since they were not on the ballot he would prefer to speak when those he contested with speak, but that the 97 percent votes he got in Anambra State should not disturb anybody because he was expecting 100 percent  votes as the people know him and believe in him. He also said that he has been truthful to the people, same for the South East and other states where he received the lion’s share of the votes cast because they believe and trust in him. “They forgot that I got over 95 percent in Anambra State in 2019 when I was a running mate, in 2023 I was the main candidate, I am even surprised that I did not get 100 percent,” he said. On the claim that he took away PDP votes and helped the APC’s Ahmed Bola Tinubu to win, Obi said he was not contesting to help anybody but to win and that by records, Nigerians made that happen despite the abracadabra by the INEC. Obi also reiterated his support for LP governorship candidates in Enugu, Abia, Lagos, and Plateau states among others 100 percent, and directs his supporters to vote for them.
On the ethnic tension in Lagos State over his victory on the February 25 poll ahead of the March 18 governorship election, Obi said it is not ethnic but some mischievous persons trying to create such an impression, saying that many non-Igbos and Yorubas who share the aspiration for new Nigeria voted for him. He said, “Even if Igbos voted for me, this is not the first time they are voting for people, they had voted massively like this for Olusegun Obasanjo even when he lost an election in his region and they also gave Jonathan more votes than South-South states and all these brouhahas did not happen.”