While there are plenty of animals you should consider adding to your farm, we would argue that there’s nothing quite like owning a goat or a herd of goats, of course. That’s because they are very hardy, they offer you plenty of milk to go with your morning croissant and better yet, their meat is considered to be one of the most delicious in the world. But the problem that a lot of people face off against after they decide to get themselves a goat or two is what breed they should opt for. The reason as to why this is such a conundrum for a lot of people is because there are well over 200 different goat breeds for you to pick from. So, choosing the perfect one is not going to be an easy job. You will need to look into the best goat breeds based on your personal preferences, budget and of course, based on their accessibility around your area. The Kalahari Red Goat Interestingly enough, it is believed that the main reason why the Kalahari Red goat was produced in the first place is to be a direct contender for the Boer goats on the market. It was specifically designed to be a tougher and more robust version of the Boer goats, and, while we can’t say whether they achieved their goals or not, we can still safely say that they produced one of the best goat breeds in the world. The Boer Goat Taking up our number one spot, we have the Boer goats, and honestly is anyone even surprised at this point? The Boer breed is commonly referred to as the best goat breed for meat around. While other breeds such as the Kalahari Red Goat do try to rival it, they hold no candle to the original Boer Goat. That’s because the quality of the meat alone is above anything else you will ever taste. This does raise the price up by quite a lot, but it isn’t for no reason either as the Boer goat is more than worthy enough of every cent. So, that’s about it for the best goat breeds you could add to your farmhouse. While there are definitely more than a handful of other breeds you could get, we personally believe that these are the best options you have on the market. The Nigerian Dwarf Goat The Nigerian Dwarf goat is by far one of the most universally acclaimed goats breeds your money could get you. They are pretty much perfect for most farms out there, as even though they are on the smaller end, being only around 2 feet tall and weighing in at 75lbs each, they still pull their weight exceptionally, thanks to their high-quality milk production. Apart from that, the Nigerian Dwarf Goat also makes for one of the sweetest and most lovable breeds you could get. So, if you’re afraid that breeding bucks will be a bit too difficult for you, you can always just start off with Nigerian Dwarf goats and ease your way through the process. They are so friendly that for the most part, Nigerian Dwarf goats are even recommended as pets for young children. The Damascus Goat The Damascus goat, or the Aleppo, as many of the locals prefer to call it, is a native breed of Syria that has made its way around the globe, thanks to its increasing popularity. But what makes it so special? Well, it is considered to be one of the best alternative breeds to go for if you want something similar to the Nubian that is raised for both milk and meat at the same time. The Damascus breed is known as one of the best dual-purpose breeds of the Middle East, and for good reason too. The Beetal Goat Beetal Goats are especially popular around India, Bangladesh and Pakistan, but lately it has also made its way into a lot of European and American farms too. If you want to get your hands on a pure bred goat, you will need to pay an extra buck or two, simply because there are very few ways to actually export it properly from Punjab. The breed standard is as follows, with the goats having a short and lustrous coat and a rather convex face. The ears are also worth noting here as the Beetal goat has a very unique pair of long, droopy ears that curl up more and more the lower they fall. The Black Bengal Goat The Bengal goat is known as one of the smallest goat breeds out there that can still provide you with a lot of high-quality milk as well as meat. It is one of the most popular goat breeds in Bangladesh and Northeastern India and it is known for having a very unique black coat that is made up of short hair. It is a bearded breed that is known for weighing in at around 40 to 44lbs, but do keep in mind that that’s only for the bucks. The does will only weigh in at 35 to 40lbs at max. The Savanna Goat Also commonly referred to as the white Boer, this breed was first developed in South Africa and it almost immediately caught on, thanks to its beautiful white colored coat. While its coat alone will fetch you a nice price on the market though, it isn’t the only financial reason why you should invest in a Savanna goat. In fact, you should know that the Savanna breed is known as one of the big three most popular meat breeds in Africa and most of the world, with the other notable breeds being the Boer and the Kalahari goats.  SOURCE:  AgronoMag 