In Nigeria, every election season seems to come with intriguing developments, and the 2023 general elections is not an exception. One striking trend that has emerged boldly in the recently concluded national assembly elections is the number of the rich and powerful elected into the National Assembly. While some ranking lawmakers were booted out of the Senate and House of Representatives by the power of the ballot, some rich people paved the way for their children perhaps to perpetuate their family’s access to power or preserve the perks accruing to the family therefrom. And so, due to the role of money in Nigeria’s political culture, it is no brainier that a number of children of the rich (mostly young) have found their way into the House of Representatives to legislate for their various constituencies.  Two northern governors fielded their children for the House of Reps race, but while one fell by the way side, Bello El-Rufai, the eldest son of Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, emerged victorious. He defeated the incumbent member representing Kaduna North Federal Constituency. Bello contested the election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), defeating Samaila Suleiman, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Bello had served as Senior Legislative Aide to Senator Uba Sani, the APC gubernatorial candidate in the state and Senator representing Kaduna Central.   Erhriatake Ibori-Suenu is the daughter of a former governor of Delta State and National Leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Chief James Onanefe Ibori. Ibori-Suenu was declared winner of the House of Representatives seat of Ethiope Federal Constituency under the platform of the PDP. The 42-year-old floored the incumbent, Ben Rolands Igbakpa of the New Nigerian People’s Party (NNPP).  Ibrahim Bello Mohammed, son of former PDP Chairman, Dr. Bello Mohammed Haliru, emerged winner of the House of Representatives seat in Birnin-Kebbi, Kalgo and Bunza Federal Constituency. This can be seen as a landmark because Governor Atiku Bagudu contested same parliamentary election (though senate) but lost. Ibrahim Bello Mohammed had been substituted and affirmed by the party after the untimely demise of his elder brother, Barrister Abba Bello Mohammed, who was the former candidate of the party. The 27-year-old Muhammed is said to be the youngest elected lawmaker for a Federal Constituency seat in the history of Nigeria.  Olamiju Alao-Akala, son of former governor of Oyo State, Adebayo Alao-Akala, won the House of Representatives seat for Ogbomosho North/South/ Oriire Federal Constituency in Oyo State. Akala, who is a former Chairman of Ogbomosho North Local Government Area beat, contested on the APC platform. He beat his closest rival, Olufemi Onireti of the PDP. BOLA SHAGYA’S SON  Mukthar Shagaya, the youngest son of the business mogul, Hajiya Muinat Bola Shagaya, won the Ilorin West/Asa federal constituency seat in the House of Representatives elections under the APC in Kwara State. Shagaya defeated his closest contestant, Ibrahim Ajia of the PDP. The 32-year-old is the youngest son of businesswoman and fashion enthusiast, Bola Muinat Shagaya, called the ‘Queen of Ilorin Emirate.’    Uche Harris Okonkwo, son of Annie Okonkwo, former senator who represented Anambra Central, won the Idemili North/South Federal constituency in Anambra State under the Labour Party. Okonkwo beat two-term incumbent, PDP’s Obinna Chidoka (who is the younger brother of former Minister of Aviation and PDP chieftain, Dr. Osita Chidoka), to clinch the seat. Okonkwo also overcame APGA candidate Mr. Ike Iyiegbu (Ike Cubana), elder brother of celebrity billionaire, Obi Cubana, as well as the APC candidate, Ifeanyi Ibezim.  Joshua Audu-Gana, eldest son of former Minister of Information, Prof. Jerry Gana, won the Lavun/Mokwa/Edati federal constituency seat of Niger State of the House of Representatives under the platform of the PDP. Gana defeated the incumbent member of the APC, Abdullahi Usman-Gbatamayigi.  George Folarin Adegeye of the Labour Party (LP), was on Tuesday, declared the winner of the Amuwo-Odofin federal constituency seat in Lagos State. Adegeye is the son of Sunny Ade, the Nigerian ace music maestro. The politician’s mother is Risikat Ajoke Adegeye, the late wife of Sunny Ade, who was also a former lawmaker at the Lagos state house of assembly.