The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Wednesday alleged plans to scuttle the 2023 general elections through fuel scarcity and naira redesign. Tinubu spoke in Abeokuta, Ogun State, during the APC presidential campaign. The former Lagos Governor, however, vowed that Nigerians would defy the fuel scarcity and trek to cast their votes. Najatu: I made a mistake supporting Buhari, I won&#8217;t repeat it with Tinubu BREAKING: Abia PDP guber candidate dies one month to elections He said the forthcoming polls would be a superior revolution. “They don’t want this election to hold. They want to sabotage it (elections). Will you allow them?”, Tinubu asked the teeming supporters at the rally, to which they responded “No.” He, however, vowed that Nigerians would defy fuel scarcity and trek to cast their votes. Tinubu vowed that “we will use PVC to take over the government from them,” just as he pointed out that the forthcoming polls would be a “superior revolution.” His words, “Even if they said there is no fuel, we will trek to vote. They have a lot of mischief; they could say there is no fuel. They have been scheming to create fuel crisis, but forget about it. “Relax, I, Asiwaju, have told you that the issue of fuel supply will be permanently addressed. Whoever wants to eat the honey embedded in a mountain won’t worry about the axe. Is that not so? And if you want to eat palm kernel, you would bring stone and use it to break it, then the kernel will come out. It’s not easy to… “Let them increase the price of fuel, only them know where they have hoarded fuel, they hoarded money, they hoarded naira; we will go and vote and we will win. Even if they changed the ink on Naira notes. Whatever their plans, it will come to nought. We are going to win. Those in the PDP will lose (won ma lule). “I am homeboy, I have come here, you will not be put to shame, we will take over the government from them, the traitors who wanted to contest with us. They had no experience. “The great Nigerian youths, the great Nigerian students, the confident Nigerian youths. This is a revolution. This election is a revolution. They are plotting, but they will fail. They said fuel price will increase and reach N200 per litre. Go and relax. They don’t want this election to be held, they want to scuttle it. Will you allow them?” On education, he promised to give loans to students, saying no student would drop out due to lack of funds. He also promised that his administration would put an end to incessant strikes, just as he said “we will make four years course four years course.” He said “On this one, I’m guaranteeing you one thing: there will be a student loan. Nobody will drop out of the University because of school fees. I guarantee you that. Nobody will have to repeat for eight years, and not graduate. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-leader-1','ezslot_3',183,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-leader-1-0');“Haba! We are too smart, we are brilliant, we are courageous, we are sharp, we will make a four years course. Do you agree? Will you vote whether there is fuel or not? Call your sister, we are bringing revolution. Let me say what’s on my mind. The other day, I told you. This one too, they think they can cause a crisis by sabotaging fuel supply. “They are sabotaging fuel supply. Whether there is fuel or not, whether there is Okada (motorcycle) or not, whether there is tricycle or not, we will go and vote and we shall win. This is a superior revolution and when I tell you, you know what I mean. You know me, we are going there to win.” “They have started coming up with the issue of ‘no fuel’. Don’t worry, if there is no fuel, we will trek to cast the vote. “If you like increase price of fuel, hide the fuel or change the ink on the naira notes, we will win the election,” he said.