Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has urged rural residents to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to enable them to vote for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in next month’s general elections. Ortom made the appeal yesterday during the PDP rally in Ugba, the headquarters of Logo LGA of the state. Ortom is one of the aggrieved governors of the PDP called the G-5 that have resolved not to support the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, until the national chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, resigns. The governor said, “If you fail to collect your PVCs, you will disenfranchise yourselves thereby not voting for our dear party, which is also your party. “I encourage you to vote en masse for all the PDP candidates, and you should not allow yourselves to be deceived by candidates of other political parties because they do not have anything to offer.” Also speaking, the PDP governorship candidate in Benue, Titus Uba, appreciated the people for praying for his quick recovery, stressing that God healed him because of their prayers. A former governor of the state, Senator Gabriel Suswam, on his part, urged the people of the area to rally round Uba and other PDP candidates to ensure their victory. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');Similarly, the Bayelsa State governor, Senator Douye Diri, has urged the people of the state to rally support for the presidential candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar, ahead of the February 25 poll. Speaking during the kickoff of the party’s campaigns in Bayelsa West Senatorial District, yesterday at Sagbama town, Diri appealed to the people of the state to vote massively for the PDP presidential candidate to right the wrongs in the country. Governor Diri, who also presented the flag to the PDP candidates, including Senator Seriake Dickson for Bayelsa West Senatorial District, Fred Agbedi for Sagbama-Ekeremor Federal Constituency, among others, described Bayelsa West as the bedrock of PDP in the state. He said PDP has the best candidates in the elections given their track record of achievements, and urged the people of Bayelsa West to vote for the party to continue enjoying effective representation.  From Hope Abah Emmanuel (Makurdi) & Bassey Willie (Yenagoa)