A member of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Executive Committee, Dele Ajayi, yesterday warned against unruly behaviour by any club or their supporter in the country’s premier football league. Ajayi gave the warning in Akure during a sensitisation programme organised by the management of Sunshine Stars for their players, ahead of their first match of the 2022/2023 season. He said the NFF was also doing everything possible to standardise the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). While emphasising on discipline, Ajayi who is also the Chairman of Ondo State Football Association charged footballers and supporters of Sunshine Stars to comport themselves on and off the pitch. He said the current NFF Executive Committee was keen on standardising the league. “This season will be a serious departure from the past. We are going to put the best referees, and the best Match Commissioners. ”Any stadium that records trouble or harassment of match officials will have the erring club losing the match with three goals against them. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');“That is why we need to talk to the players. Likewise, the business of supporters’ clubs is to support their teams, while the referee’s decisions are final. “We will do our own bit. Also, the coaches will do theirs. They must be updated about the laws of the game,” Ajayi said. Also, a retired FIFA referee and resource person at the programme, Henry Ogunyanmodi, stressed the need for briefing footballers and coaches on the latest technical rules. ”This will stand them out in the league,” he said. Responding, the first assistant coach of Sunshine Stars and former national player, Akin Olowookere, said that the technical team would continue to guide the players. He assured that they would make use of all the techniques and instructions for a better outing. The News Agency of Nigeria NAN reports that Sunshine Stars’ first match will be away against Doma United of Gombe on Sunday. (NAN). 