Novak Djokovic The former world No 1 is looking to match Rafael Nadal’s record of 22 Grand Slam titles and returns to Australia hoping to make headlines on the court following his deportation last year over his COVID-19 vaccine stance. Djokovic overcame a hamstring issue and saved a championship point in Adelaide to win the final and maintain his unbeaten streak in Australia, which now stands at 33 matches since his last loss in the fourth round of the 2018 Australian Open. The 35-year-old is seeking a record-extending 10th title in Melbourne. Rafa Nadal Nadal is looking to defend his hard-earned 2022 crown and is the de facto No 1 in Melbourne following the injury withdrawal of fellow Spaniard and US Open champion Carlos Alcaraz. The 36-year-old did not have the best of starts to the season, however, losing both his matches in the inaugural United Cup. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');But Nadal put that down to rust having skipped tournaments in an injury-ravaged 2022 season where he won four titles, including two majors. Daniil Medvedev The former world No 1 will be hoping to make it third-time lucky in Melbourne after losing the 2021 and 2022 finals to Djokovic and Nadal, respectively. Medvedev has slipped to eighth in the rankings but the Russian counter-puncher and hardcourt specialist has vowed to find a way to rediscover his 2021 form when he won his first major at the US Open. Nick Kyrgios The mercurial Australian has not played on tour since October and did not play in tune-up events due to a niggling injury, but such is his talent that he could walk into the main draw without match practice and still swat opponents aside. Casper Ruud Last year marked a turning point for Ruud who made deep runs in tournaments and reached finals of Grand Slams, Masters and the season-ending ATP Finals – only to finish on the losing side every time. Ruud even had the opportunity to clinch the world No 1 spot before Alcaraz triumphed in the US Open final.