President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will be fair to all if elected. Addressing a mammoth crowd of supporters at the venue of the Tinubu/Shettima presidential rally in Yola, on Monday, Buhari extolled Tinubu’s leadership qualities, calling on the electorate to vote for him in the forthcoming election. The president also urged the electorate in Adamawa to support the APC governorship candidate, Senator Aishatu Dahiru Binani, and all other candidates vying for elective positions in the state. He stated that Tinubu would be just and fair in handling the affairs of government, while Senator Binani would make history and elevate the level of women’s participation in politics as the first female governor in Nigeria. In his address, the APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, promised to improve  security and bring unity among Nigerians while providing job opportunities for the unemployed youths and addressing challenges facing the educational and petroleum sectors within a short period of time. Earlier in her remark, the APC governorship candidate, Senator Binani, thanked President Buhari and other national chieftains of the party for supporting her ambition, promising not to disappoint them. She also harped on her plan to enlist the support and counsel of all stakeholders if elected. She therefore called on those who contested against her at the governorship primary election to team up with her to ensure victory for the party. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');In separate speeches, the APC national chairman and the director general of Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and Plateau State governor, Simon Lalong, respectively, urged voters across the country to vote for APC candidates all through. Adamawa State governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, received the president at the Yola International Airport and escorted him to the palace of Lamido Adamawa, Dr Muhammad Barkindo Aliyu Mustapha. At the palace, Buhari said he was in Adamawa to seek support for Tinubu, Binani and all APC candidates, adding that the prospect of the first female governor in Adamawa State was exciting. In his response, the Lamido commended the president for his quality leadership and concern he showed for the people of Adamawa. He also thanked the governor for the developmental projects he initiated in the state. Speaking earlier, the governor described President Buhari as an achiever, saying Adamawa would always give him a warm welcome. He prayed for free and fair elections in 2023. Meanwhile, thousands of Adamawa residents trooped out to witness the campaign rally. Among the dignitaries that attended the rally were the former minister of transport, Rotimi Amaechi, and many former governors. Daily Trust last week reported that Amaechi, a former governor of Rivers State, has been missing in the campaign trail of Tinubu.  From Kabiru R. Anwar & Amina Abdullahi, Yola