The Chief of Defense Staff, General Lucky Irabor, has ruled out the possibility of the military taking over power in Nigeria, saying democracy has come to stay in the country. The CDS stated this on Sunday while responding to questions from journalists at at the National Arcade, Abuja, during the wreath laying ceremony that marked the climax of the Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration. The question which he reacted to went thus: “As the nation heads to a crucial election, any assurances from the armed forces to the people of Nigeria, that never again, will we see men in uniform take power?” Irabor, in his reaction, said: “Well, I mean, democracy has come to stay. Government of the people, by the people and for the people in Nigeria has come to stay. That is an assurance and then of course for the elections, I am sure you know, that the police are on the lead. “I have been discussing with the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and of course, we have also made contingencies should we be required to give support to the police as the election is conducted. I think for Nigerians, you are rest assured that the armed forces remain solidly behind the police to be able to give them all the support as required.” On the significance of Sunday’s event and the expectations, the CDS said: “The armed forces remembrance day celebration is not a day of mourning. It is the day that we need to give thanks to God; that men and women of this great nation once served, are serving and will continue to serve this country. And that we have that level of love for country that men and women have committed to and, if need be, sacrifice their lives so that the rest of us can be live. I think it’s a worthy thing. “So today, it is quite a very unique day, that the nation has set it aside to value, to place a premium on the services and honouring the services of men or women of our great country. “And I think that is the message that has gone across the length and breadth of the members of the armed forces. So, we are more motivated to continue to play our part. “And then for the veterans to also know that their services, the sacrifices that they made is not in vain, which, of course, is quite motivating for them too.”