The sacked Wazirin Bauchi, Alhaji Muhammadu Bello Kirfi, has said he is not moved by his removal, boasting that he will remove the state governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, in the coming election. Bauchi Emirate Council had last week sacked Kirfi as Wazirin Bauchi, citing disloyalty and disrespect toward the governor. Daily Trust reports that Kirfi was suspended as Wazirin Bauchi  in 2017. However, on August 5, 2020, he was reinstated. The elder statesman told journalists on Sunday that, “the way I brought him to office will also be the way to get him out of power. “I regard what happened to me as a simple incident, because something has been worrying me. I’m one those who stood for him to become the governor and I was disappointed. “This is the worse he can do to me, but it doesn’t matter because I am not gaining anything from the office.” “I was instrumental in bringing him to power in 2019. At the time when Bala needed the critical support to actualise his political ambition, I was there for him all through. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[250,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');“I did all I could to see that he emerged victorious against a government that enjoyed federal might at that time.” Kirfi noted that the governor betrayed the trust of all the political gladiators that made huge sacrifices to bring him to power, adding that nearly four years into the administration, salient issues that are dearer to the people of the state remain unattended to despite repeated promises. When contacted, the Director of Media and Publicity 2023 PDP Gubernatorial Campaign Council, who is also the publicity secretary of the party, Yayanuwa Zainabari, said the campaign council is not bothered by Kirfi’s threat. “Governor Mohammed is seeking re-election from the Bauchi electorate, not a single individual because it is God who gives power to whom He wills. “No individual can claim to be responsible for bringing Governor Bala Mohammed to power because it was the people of Bauchi State across different political parties that voted him into office,” he said. 