Abia Warriors yesterday maintained their 100 percent record to the start of the 2023 Nigeria Premier Football League (NPFL) abridged season after brushing aside newly promoted Bayelsa United 3-1 in what was a winning return to the Umuahia Township Stadium in almost 3 years. The Week Two victory also propelled the Warriors to the top of Group B with the maximum six points after their emphatic 2-0 away win over Enugu Rangers last Sunday in Awka. The Warriors were quick out of the block as Kalu Nweke scored in the second minute while second half strikes from youngsters Bello Lukman (65th minute) and Henry Udezuka (87th minute) ensured all three points for the Umuahia based side. Still in Group B, inspired Lobi Stars of Makurdi earned their first win of the season after defeating troubled Rangers 1-0 at the New Jos Stadium. My health challenge stale news, rubbish – Tinubu Fast rising Online Newspapers making waves in Nigeria In a bid to avoid a second defeat, Rangers put pressure on the defence of Lobi Stars but paid for their prolificacy when Joseph Atule unleashed a thunderous shot at the edge of the box for the hosts’ winning goal in the 82nd minute. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[468,60],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');At the Godswill Akpabio stadium in Uyo, Dakkada FC also inflicted a second defeat on visiting Wikki Tourist as they won 2-1 to stay second on the Group B table. The Tourists from Bauchi stunned Dakkada in the 2nd minute when Ismaila Maiyaki opened the scoring but in the 30th minute, Kufre Ebong made it 1-1 and with half an hour to go, Aniekan Okon Ekpe ensured all the points for the hosts. In Aba, Enyimba failed to win the maximum points against Akwa United who forced them to a 0-0 draw. However, by virtue of their opening day win at Nasarawa United, Enyimba are still on top of Group A with four points. Action continues today as Bendel Insurance host Plateau United in Benin City while Nasarawa United square up with El-Kanemi Warriors in Jos. Gombe United will host Remo Stars at the Pantami Stadium just as 3SC welcome Kwara United to Lekan Salami stadium in Ibadan. Elsewhere, Niger Tornadoes engage Doma United in Kaduna while Sunshine Stars welcome defending champions Rivers United at the Akure Township Stadium.  By David Ngobua & Jide Olusola