A 40-year-old man, Nuhu Umar Usman, has reportedly shot dead his second wife, Ladi Nuhu, at Dangarfa village in Ningi Local Government Area of Bauchi State. Bauchi State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Ahmed Wakil, who confirmed the incident, said the suspect had been arrested. He said, “Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect slept in the same room with his ( the deceased) that night. The suspect had two wives and six children. “There was an altercation between the wives, to the extent that the eldest son holds grudges against the father and threatened to harm him. Prior to that incident, the eldest son threatened the father. Bauchi emir replaces Bello Kirfi with Ahmed Kari as new Waziri Robbery suspect killed in gun duel with police “This made the suspect load his dane gun and kept beside him throughout the night waiting for the intruder, possibly his eldest son.” Wakil said investigation revealed that on the DDecember 28, 2022, at about 2am while Usman was sleeping in the same room with his wife, she stepped out of the room to use the convenience. “On her way coming back to the room, the husband woke up and armed himself with a dane gun upon hearing suspicious move close to his room and directly fired at her in the stomach. “As a result, she sustained injuries. The victim was rushed to the General Hospital Burra, but certified dead by a medical doctor,” the PPRO added. Wakil noted that the Commissioner of Police, CP Aminu Alhassan, has directed that the suspect be charged to court on completion of the investigation. In a related development, the Command has arrested a 50-year-old woman, Amina Guguwa, for allegedly killing her co-wife at Miya village, Bauchi State. Wakil explained that information available to the Command revealed that on January 1, 2023, Amina Koli (the deceased) aged 60, was strangled to death by her co-wife following a physical confrontation. “On receiving the report, a team of detectives were drafted and they rushed to the scene where they evacuated the victim to the General Hospital, Ganjuwa for a post-mortem examination. “She was certified dead by a medical doctor. The investigation is in progress, after which the suspect will be charged to court for prosecution,” Wakil added.