Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State has said anyone who truly loves Nigeria will not vote for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023 general elections. While addressing members of the Ward To Ward For Diri/Lawrence sociopolitical group who paid him a solidarity visit at the Government House, Yenagoa, he said a vote for APC in the state is “tantamount to endorsing the woeful performance of the party at the center”. He, however, urged the people of the state to vote massively for all candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to ensure landslide victory for the party in the forthcoming general elections. Represented by his Deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, the governor stated that the ruling party in the country can no longer be trusted with political power, urging the group to work for the success of the PDP at all levels. According him, his administration has made giant strides in infrastructural development, education, security, sports and virtually all sectors of the economy. This, he said, was made possible because of his preparedness for governance and the continued support from all well-meaning Bayelsans. He noted that when campaign begins for the state governorship election, the PDP will campaign with the achievements his administration has recorded so far, rather than engage in insults and name calling. He said: “I want to thank you people very well for this show of solidarity. Governor Douye Diri was very prepared to govern this state, that’s why we are doing well. “We will not insult people during our campaign, we will campaign with what we have done. Bayelsa State has made tremendous progress in infrastructure, sports, education and other sectors and indeed, one good tenure deserves another. “APC has destroyed Nigeria and cannot be trusted by Nigerians. It cannot be trusted with power in this country. So, vote for the PDP at all levels.” He said. Earlier, Director General of the Ward To Ward for Diri/Lawrence, Mr. Ogidi Bara Ben, said they were satisfied with the performance of the Prosperity Administration in different areas, particularly the impressive progress being made in the construction of the Bayelsa Central Senatorial Road.