The President of Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), Dr Al-Mujtaba Abubakar, has called on governments at all levels to adopt friendly business policies this year. In a statement yesterday, Dr Abubakar stated that the existence of such policies in the country would engender growth, leading to the economy developing substantially. He urged Nigerians to regard the challenges of 2022 as a motivation for concerted efforts to persist in building their businesses despite the harsh fiscal environment. According to him, businessmen and women in Nigeria should remain undaunted and consistent in applying innovative methods and strategies to sustain their businesses in 2023, adding that operators of small and medium-scale businesses should not relent but continue to advocate for an improved business climate in the country. “In 2022, millions of people around the world were on the move, fleeing wars, insecurity, wildfires, droughts, poverty and hunger. “From Ukraine to Afghanistan to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and beyond, people left the ruins of their homes and lives in search of something better. These chaotic situations affected businesses as the inflationary rate keeps rising higher.” He stated that in 2023, there is a need for peace more than ever; peace with one another, through dialogue to end conflicts and build a more sustainable world. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_1',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');He called on the government to intensify its efforts in providing the technology and digital infrastructure needed for new business techniques in line with current realities while still commending the government’s efforts and achievements despite the challenges of 2022 caused by the Russia-Ukrainian war and insecurity in this part of the world. On the upcoming 2023 elections activities, he said, the business community is praying for a peaceful and progressive process that will protect the country’s economic and business activities.