Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has said only his party has what it takes to end the insecurity ravaging the country, especially Niger state. Addressing Party supporters and chieftains in Minna, the state capital at the weekend, the former Vice president also vowed to complete the Baro Port which he said the PDP started but has been abandoned by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) administration. Atiku said: “We pray that God bring peace to the state. You know that only PDP can bring peace to Niger. When PDP was in power from 1999 to 2015 was there insecurity in Niger? We want to assure you that if you return PDP, we will eliminate insecurity in Niger. “We also assure you that the Baro Port that the PDP first constructed before you demanded for change, now have you seen the change? What did the change bring? Insecurity, hardship and economic meltdown. We appeal to you to return to PDP for improved security, development and other things in Niger and the country at large.” 2023: Styles unique to Tinubu, Obi, Atiku, Kwankwaso Wike threatens to cancel Atiku&#8217;s Campaign venue in Rivers On his part, the National Chairman of the PDP, Dr Iyorchia Ayu who received the former Deputy Governor of the state Musa Ibeto and thousands of his supporters, said, “Niger state, unknown to so many people, has the highest concentration of mineral resources ranging from gold to every other thing possible under the ground. But unfortunately, under the APC, Niger state is almost the headquarter of poverty. It is also the headquarters of insecurity. “At some point, ten of the local government in Niger state were occupied by bandits, yet we have a government that promised that it will give you change, it will give you security, it will give you development. I just want to tell my good people of Niger state that it is time to come back home. Come back to your party, vote for your party from state assembly to National Assembly, to governor and all the candidates.” He promised that the PDP will return Nigeria back to the path of progress, adding however that the only way that can be done is when you come out en masse with your Permanent Voters Card (PVC) and vote for Atiku Abubakar and Ifeanyi Okowa.