Remo Stars have maintained their perfect start to the 2022/23 abridged Nigeria Professional Football League by defeating Gombe United 1-0 yesterday at the Pantami stadium Gombe while Niger Tornadoes edged newly promoted Doma FC 1-0 in Kaduna to go joint tops with Aba Warriors in Group B. Munir Idris’ early goal kept Tornadoes’ unbeaten streak alive in the MatchDay 2 midweek games played yesterday, moving the Minna team into second position behind the Abia Warriors, who have a better goal differential. Defending champions, Rivers United were unable to get past Sunshine Stars as both sides settled for a 1-1 draw at the Akure Township Stadium, giving the hosts their first point of the season. Rivers United took the lead in the 24th minute and were poised to keep its perfect start to the new campaign until Ejike Uzoenyi, a former member of the Super Eagles, scored Sunshine’s equalizer late in the 86th minute. Traders allege damage as developer remodels Abuja computer complex Remo, Tornadoes remain unbeaten as Insurance stun Plateau United After defeating Gombe United 1-0, Remo Stars in Group A improved to 2-0 on the year. A winner by Andy Okpe in stoppage time at the Pantami Stadium decided a very close game. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');As a result, Bendel Insurance and Remo Stars are now tied for first place in Group A. El Kanemi Warriors defeated Nasarawa United 2-1 in another hotly contested game in group A. Alpha Igbudu’s goal in the 13th minute and Zayyad Musa’s goal in the 74th minute gave the Warriors a two-goal advantage. Onuche Ogbelu’s goal in the 90th minute gave Nasarawa United a last-ditch comeback attempt, but was not enough to get a point. At the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin, Bendel Insurance scored the game-winning goal in stoppage time to keep their perfect record in Group A intact. After a goalless first half, Ismail Sarki gave Insurance the lead in the 66th minute. However, Plateau United equalized in the 90th minute through Mustapha Abdulahi and looked like it had snatched a valuable point until Imade Osehenkhoe stunned them with the winner in the 93rd minute.