The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, has confessed Jesus Christ as Lord of lords, adding that He turns shame into celebration. Ooni said this during the grand finale of New Year Prayers organised by the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) at Afewonro Park, Enuwa Square, on Saturday, in Ile-Ife. Oba Ogunwusi, who led different Christian worship songs and praises during the service, clarified that it is a good thing to always praise the Lord Jesus Christ and appreciate Him. “When I look back, I observe that my life is full of God’s wonders and miracles despite all challenges faced, but today, the Lord gave me victory over them all. “I sat down here last year with a lot of tribulations and storms of life which I cannot explain, but to God be the Glory that my shame has turned to celebration. “I observed where I started, hitherto, the Lord has helped me. It is clearly stated to me that the Lord is Alive. A fool is anyone that says there’s no God,” the traditional ruler stated. He charged Christians to hold firmly unto Jesus Christ, adding: “Truly, He is the son of God and He is the one that lives with him on the throne.” The Ooni said that there was no one who works with God that loses, adding that money was not everything in life. According to him, sound health, safety, and feeding among others were part of God’s goodness. Ooni reiterated his commitment to serve God and humanity throughout the rest of his life as well as always working for the growth and development of Ile-Ife, Osun, the Yoruba race and the country at large. Oba Ogunwusi warned youths against allowing politicians to instigate them into violence and other social vices particularly before, during and after the forthcoming general elections. In his message at the event, Pastor Mathew Adejumo, the Superintendent for Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Oke Isegun Moore District Coordinating Council (DCC), told the congregation that God still has powers like of old. Adejumo, whose message was titled “Be Still” and his bible verse taken from Mark 4: 35-41, said that God is still able to calm every storm in each individual’s life and in the country. (NAN)