The corpse of Oreoluwa Fatinoye, son of the couple allegedly assassinated on the New Year day in Abeokuta, Ogun State, has been recovered from a river. The deceased was reportedly murdered and thrown into a river along the Adigbe – Obada road in Abeokuta, after he was kidnapped by the assailants who murdered his parents. The couple, Kehinde and Bukola Fatinoye reportedly died during the incident that occurred at their residence located within the Ibara Government Reservation Area (GRA), Abeokuta. Our correspondent gathered that the incident occurred shortly after the couple returned from Cross Over Service to usher in the New Year. Husband stabbed to death for confronting wife’s lover in Ogun Couple dies as arsonists set house ablaze in Ogun The wife was a worker at the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), while the husband was in the employ of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). However, the decomposing body of Oreoluwa was discovered floating on the river by fishermen on Tuesday morning. Oreoluwa and the housemaid were reportedly kidnapped by the assailants and the two were later thrown into a river along Adigbe – Obada area of the town. Our correspondent observed both hands of the deceased were tied with rope to his back, apparently before he was thrown into the river. The fisherman, Idowu Taiwo who discovered the corpse, said the lifeless body was found floating on the river while he was preparing for the day’s work. “On Monday, we heard that someone was thrown into this river, but this morning while we were preparing for work, the police approached us and pleaded with us to inform them any time we discover the body. “But, this morning, around 7.30, we discovered the body while we were checking on our equipment in the river. I called someone to help us get the number of the PPRO to tell him that we have discovered the body. “Not long after, the police came and we showed them the body after we had brought to the river bank”, Idowu said. Daily Trust reports that the Police later took the corpse of Oreoluwa away in the presence of the family member of the Fatinoyes. The Police Spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi said the command had commenced investigation to unravel the mystery behind the death of the Fatinoyes. Oyeyemi said, a suspect had been arrested in connection to the incident.