There is a mild drama trending in Kano as one Sani Umar Gwarzo, who identified himself as the husband of a film actress, Hafsat Tuge, said he will go to court, as his wife joined a popular series movie ‘Amaryar TikTok’ without his consent. Gwarzo said he was living peacefully with his wife until he noticed some changes in her, and that to his surprise, he sighted her in a series movie trending on YouTube. “It surprised me because I didn’t divorce my wife, when people called my attention to the fact that my wife is featured in a popular Hausa series film, ‘Amaryar Tiktok’. When I watched the movie, I saw her. I was very surprised.” He accused the film producers of deceiving his wife and dragging her attention with money, saying that she was a peaceful woman before. “They just used the money to deceive my wife and put her in a movie. I will go to court to seek my right. I also want the government, Kano State Hisbah and clerics to fight for my rights.” However, speaking to Freedom Radio in Kano, the actress, Hafsat Tuge, described the man as her ex-husband who divorced her long ago. She said the man uttered some words that indirectly meant he had divorced her, and that was why she decided to move on with her life after spending the three-month waiting period in accordance with Islamic teaching. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');“When he uttered such words, I moved to my parents’ home, but he didn’t come for three months. That is why I moved on with my life,” she said. When contacted, the director of the movie, Ahmad Bifa, said they didn’t feature the actress in the movie until she fulfilled all the requirements needed and that she had appeared in several movies before. Also, the Kano State Censorship Board, through its chairman, Ismail Nabba Afakallah, said although they did not receive a complaint from the husband, they would investigate the matter and come up with the right decision. 