Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has devolved the Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) collection to registration areas and wards across 774 local government offices of the commission throughout the federation. INEC national commissioner and chairman Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said this on Thursday. According to him, all validly registered voters who are yet to collect their PVCs are encouraged to use the opportunity of the devolution to the wards to do so. Okoye also said that after 15th of January 2023, the exercise will revert to the local government offices of the commission until 22nd January 2023. 5-year-old boy raped to death in Ogun &#8211; Police Elections: Ensure your registration is updated on INEC’s portal, Yiaga Africa tasks voters Daily Trust reports that the commission had fixed 22 January 2023 as the last day of PVCs collection. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_2',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');“All eligible and valid registrants can collect their PVCs from 9:00 am to 3:00 pm daily, including Saturdays and Sundays,” he said. He also said that all those that applied for the replacement of lost, damaged or defaced PVCs can collect their PVCs at the registration areas/wards during this period and the same thing applies to those that registered prior to the 2019 general election and are yet to collect their cards. “The PVCs of those that applied for transfer are available for collection in the local governments and registration areas where they intend to vote and not in the state or local government where they carried out the transfer. “The commission appreciates the patience and understanding of Nigerians who trooped to our various local government offices to collect their PVCs. “In making the cards available for collection, the commission is also working to ensure that the process is simple and hitch-free for Nigerians,” he said. Meanwhile, the Chairman of the commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, has inaugurated the Situation Room and Collation Centre committees, charging them to commence work in earnest and to discharge its responsibilities diligently. This is contained in a statement Thursday night by Festus Okoye. 