The Kogi State Government has issued a query to the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland, Dr. Ado Ibrahim, for allegedly disrespecting President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Yahaya Bello. The monarch was accused of refusing to welcome the president during his working visit to the state on December 29, 2022. In the letter dated on 5th December, 2023, and signed by one Enimola A. Eniola, Director, Chieftaincy Affairs ,on behalf of the commissioner for Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. The monarch was directed to “forward a written explanation within 48hrs on why disciplinary action should not be taken against him for acts of insubordination and disloyalty”. ISWAP commander behind Kogi explosion during Buhari&#8217;s visit arrested &#8211; DSS Buhari inaugurates Reference Hospital, other projects in Kogi The king was asked to appear before the panel to be set up by the state government to give oral explanation why he should not be punished for his action.” The letter reads: “It has been observed with serious concern that you have been exhibited deliberate attitude and actions capable of bringing Kogi and Ebiraland ,in particular to grave disrepute. The actions are quite unbecoming of a revered Royal father of your status. “In flagrant disregard to the persons and high offices of the president and the governor, you bluntly refused to come out and receive the president at the designated venue ,rightly approved by the executive governor of the state. “You have chosen to disdain the office of the executive governor, and this time ,you did it with effrontery before the number one citizen of Nigeria. “It’s on record that in time past ,top most traditional rulers ,including the president, Kogi state council of chiefs do receive the governor of the state on his return from critical missions undertaken on behalf of the state . “This action of yours is an act of insubordination and disloyalty to the President and and Commander-in-Chief of Nigerian armed forces, the executive governor of Kogi state and the entire Ebira nation as a whole. It portends grave danger to the security of of the state and laying bad precedence of traditional institution of the state.” A palace source told Daily Trust that the monarch has received the query, and is considering his next course of action.