Uduak Emmanuel Abraham is the CEO and founder of Grand Digital, Data and Technology Foundation. In this interview, she explains to our reporter the concept of digital technology and data science and how she’s growing the awareness in Nigeria. You’re into a field that hardly resonates with Nigerians, why did you choose digital technology and data science? Let me first correct this impression, digital technology and data science are not abstruse or recondite as they’re made to appear. They are quite popular with people and the demand for knowledge resonates with a high population of Nigerians. This is not restricted to only those versed in the field as many are won’t to think that only young people are drawn to digital technology but I can assure you that a vast majority of the population exposed to products and services that rely on digital technology and data science are keen on knowing more. My health challenge stale news, rubbish – Tinubu My health challenge stale news, rubbish – Tinubu Since 2001, when the Obasanjo administration launched the GSM in Nigeria, more and more people have grabbed the opportunity availed by the advancement in technology and are using it for personal communication, social interaction, political discourse and to enhance their businesses. The awareness is such that today, there is virtually nobody that is not using digital technology either directly or indirectly. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');Even from the increase in the number of phone lines alone, from 400,000 in 2001 to the hundreds of millions we now have, you can see why digital technology has become very important. Take a look at the demographics of those using digital technology and you will find out that it cuts across gender, age and status. So, digital technology and data science are quite popular. To answer the second part of your question, I chose the field because that is where the future lies. Businesses, both private and government, depend on the sector for success. Henceforth, even social interaction would depend on the use of digital technology for development. This is even more so in the rural areas where a lot is needed to bring awareness to enhance the living standard of the people. When did you start? I started some years ago with a keen interest in digital technology but my company was inaugurated as a non-profit foundation in July 2022, to promote and create the awareness of digital technology and data science in communities, especially among women, youths and children and we are committed to supporting and promoting effective and sustainable models of digital technology and data science education. How do you intend to achieve that? We seek to cover the digital technology and data science divide within our community by working with businesses, organisations, individuals and communities to promote, train, mentor and create awareness of digital technology and data science in our society through the provision of technical resources to access digital technology and data science education. Our target is the development of women, youths, and children empowering and supporting businesses and digital technology and data science education. How much have you covered in that regard? We have been able to train quite a number of women and youths. By our intervention, so many businesses have been digitized. Due to logistics constraints, we had to map out our strategy before starting and decided to start from Northern Nigeria. So we are currently covering Northern Nigeria effectively. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-large-leaderboard-2','ezslot_4',153,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-large-leaderboard-2-0');Northern Nigeria? That’s interesting, what’s the response like? People think that the North is backward in terms of education and technology but the number we found to be keen on learning and growing their businesses through improved technology has been more than encouraging. It’s been tremendous. We are educating the women and less privileged about digital technology and data science and the awareness is growing. There’s much more to be done; of course, but even within the relatively short time we started, we can say that we have done a lot. 