Popular Nigerian novelist, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie has reacted to the recent chieftaincy title bestowed on her in her hometown. It could be recalled that on Friday, 30th of December 2022, Chimamanda was given a chieftaincy title in Abba, Anambra State. Several prominent Nigerians were in attendance at the ceremony, including the monarch of Onitsha, Igwe Alfred Achebe, and the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi. The writer’s recent title, “Odeluwa,” is an Igbo language expression translated as “the one who writes for the world.” Chimamanda had shared several posts on her social media accounts about the ceremony at the time. Wizkid’s son visits Ghanaian orphanage home, shares toys OBJ’s endorsement won’t take Obi anywhere – Reps forum In a recent post, the novelist shared a video of how her coronation went with the monarch. At the ceremony, she also expressed her gratitude to the people and traditional leaders of her hometown. She wrote; “I am so grateful to my people of Abba in Anambra State for their warmth and love, for their enthusiastic support. And to Igwe L.N. Ezeh, who has always valued education, for giving me the title of “Odeluwa”, “the one who writes for the world! (My father received the title of “Odelora”, ” ‘the one who writes for the community” and the symbolism means very much to me.” The world-renowned author known to be a vocal feminist noted that her chieftaincy title will spur more women to be the best in whatever sectors of society they find themselves. Adichie noted that she is the first woman to become a chief in her hometown. “I am the first woman in my hometown to be made a chief, and it makes me happy to know that more women will follow. Culture does not make people, people make culture. Cultures thrive when they best serve and reflect the people. Ours must become a culture that celebrates achievement, whether it comes from a man or a woman.” “It was a day filled with joyful moments but the highlight for me was the sight of many children on the dusty road, laughing and waving and shouting ‘Odeluwa!’ Amongst them, I hope, were little girls with their hearts full of dreams who feel encouraged to keep trying, to keep going.” Chimamanda Ngozi is one of the most prominent Nigerian authors who have gained tremendous recognition worldwide due to her outstanding works. She was described in The Times Literary Supplement as one of the few who have succeeded in attracting a new generation of readers to African literature. A few of her works include “Purple Hibiscus”, “Americanah”, and “Half of a yellow sun”