The All Progressives Congress (APC) has said the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, “lacks the character to be the president of Nigeria.” In a statement issued by the Director, Media and Publicity of the APC Presidential Campaign Council, Bayo Onanuga, on Sunday, the party further called for arrest, investigation and prosecution of the former Vice-President for allegedly running Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs) allegedly used to divert public funds. The statement was the council’s reaction to the latest call by the PDP on the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate the APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, over drug trafficking. The PDP also alleged that Tinubu was involved in illegal drug-related business in 2015. Alleged defamation: MKO Abiola’s widow slams N100bn suit against police, others Abuja-Kaduna train attack suspect nabbed Reacting, the APC campaign council said: “It is obvious that the PDP and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, are yet to recover from the bombshell the APC PCC released last week.” The council had, at a recent press conference, questioned the morality of Atiku to remain in the presidential race, following his alleged damaging self-confession in a leaked audio clip. The statement reads, “Since the scandal broke out, along with legal action to compel anti-graft agencies to perform their role, Atiku and his party, PDP, have laboured in vain to deflect and cover-up with their series of ad hominem arguments. “Instead of Atiku to apologise to Nigerians for abusing his office and position of trust as vice-president in the past, his spokesmen continue to dig deeper in the hole they already found themselves.” It added that the “latest chapter in Atiku and PDP’s comedy was the rehash of old tales and fables that had no basis in facts and reality against Tinubu. “Our stand remains that Atiku Abubakar lacks the character to be the president of Nigeria. “He is unfit to lead our country because he can be an easy target for compromises that will be against national interest. And we believe that the characters who still parade themselves as his spokespersons have lost their minds. “This is why they think Nigerians can be swayed by all their deliberate falsehoods and the lies they manufacture every day against Tinubu to deceive the public. They should instead be remorseful for the legendary corruption of their boss.”