The Kano State governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has said the state will repeat what happened in the 1993 presidential election when it supported a Southern candidate and rejected a citizen of the state. The governor spoke during a campaign tour with the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates vying for different positions in the forthcoming general elections. He visited the District Head of Kibiya, Sunusi Abubakar Ila, after holding a campaign rally and consultations in Rano and Bunkure LGAs of the state. Recall that Ganduje had endorsed the APC presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, leaving a former governor of the state, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, who is seeking the presidential seat on the platform of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). The governor said, “We voted for Chief MKO Abiola of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and rejected Bashir Othman Tofa of the National Republican Convention (NRC) because we all believed in national integration and competence. Digital technology: Why I focus on Northern Nigeria 2 Borno LGAs record 755 cases of gender-based violence — UNICEF report if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');“Tinubu was an instrument behind Atiku Abubakar’s emergence as the presidential candidate of Action Congress (AC). He also provided another platform for Nuhu Ribadu to contest for the presidency on the platform of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). “Therefore, Asiwaju Tinubu worked very hard to maintain the equation, hence, his support for Northern presidential candidates in the past. One good turn deserves another. We have no other option now than to support his candidature. “Tinubu, the only deserving and most competent presidential candidate in the upcoming election, is being supported by the North because of his firm belief in nation building, all-encompassing pedigree, firm belief in human and national development, among other factors,” Ganduje added. It’s payback time for Tinubu – Gov Oyebanji Similarly, the Ekiti State governor, Biodun Oyebanji, has said the state is indebted to Tinubu and will pay back with massive votes during the February 25 poll. Governor Oyebanji made the remark during the inauguration of the 143-member APC State Presidential Campaign Council in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, yesterday. The governor described the former Lagos State governor as the indisputable father of progressive politics in the country who should be well supported for the nation’s number one job. “For us in Ekiti, our target is to be the state that returns the highest percentage of votes to APC and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu come February 25, 2023,” the governor said. Earlier, a former governor of Ekiti State and co-chairman of the council, Dr Kayode Fayemi, stressed the importance of peaceful coexistence and unity of purpose to achieve success in the election.  From Zahraddeen Yakubu Shuaibu (Kano) & Raphael Ogbonnaiye (Ado-Ekiti)