Former Governor Ikedi Ohakim of Imo State has narrated how he and his children escaped an attack on Monday. Daily Trust had reported how policemen were killed when Ohakhim’s convoy was attacked at Ehime Mbano Local Government Area of Imo. In an interview with TheNiche, an online platform, the former governor was quoted as saying his bulletproof vehicle saved him. “We were driving between Isiala Mbano and Ehime Mbano. These people blocked us at a place called Umualumaku. Gunmen hit ex-Gov Ohakim&#8217;s convoy in Imo, kill Policemen APC senatorial tickets: Aliero, Ohakim pull out as Yari, Goje, Oshiomhole, others win “They attacked us from behind and were firing at our vehicles consistently. I thought I was a dead man and I was with two of my children – my son and daughter. “What saved me was the bulletproof vehicle. That I am alive today is by the special grace of God and the bulletproof vehicle. But unfortunately for me they killed four of our boys, including the driver. Yes, we lost four of the boys and I am devastated. How can that be? What crime did they commit?” Ohakim said after his driver escaped from the scene, the assailants pursued his vehicle and kept shooting. “They pursued us and continued firing at our tyres. Luckily, the vehicle has what is called run-flat tyres on which you can continue driving even after a puncture. So, even when they shot at the tyres hoping to immobilise us, the vehicle continued moving. If they were ordinary tyres and the vehicle had stopped, they would cornered and finished us. “But the tyres held on until we got back home. We drove for about 20 minutes before we got home. That was the saving grace.” “The driver who manifested tremendous level of driving skill kept manoeuvring until he lost them at a junction when he went right and not knowing where we had gone, they headed the other direction on the road to Umuahia. “We then turned and went back to my house. We were there when Imo Government House sent reinforcement from Owerri who brought the corpses of my security people. “This goes beyond the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), I must say. These are professionals, well-trained. They are not ordinary people. They were driving a blue colour BMW 5-series car, brand new. They came to kill me.”