The presidential candidate of the People Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar has promised to transform the agricultural sector into a commercially driven sector that would enable farmers to grow if given the mandate on February 25. Atiku disclosed this while revealing his plans for the agricultural sector to a group of over 2,000 farmers during the First Kano State All Value Chain Conference for Small Holder Farmers, which was held at Meena Event Centre. The presidential candidate, represented by his Campaign Director on Support Groups, Senator Baraka Sani said the agriculture sector as one of his development agenda under economic prosperity will be given more priority so that it can develop into a modern productive and competitive venture with high job creation and poverty reduction capacity. “One of our plans is to increase agricultural output from N41.3 trillion (2022 record) to about N55 trillion by 2030. This implies an increase from 2.1% to 3.7% through the elevation of irrigation policy to a top long-term investment priority. “That is why we gathered farmers from across all value chains and commodities to hear from you and your demands to make it easier for us to develop the sector altogether,” he said. Meanwhile, the Majigiri-led faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Katsina State, backed by former Governor Ibrahim Shehu Shema, has backed Atiku for president. At a rally held at the Atiku Presidential Campaign Office in Katsina Sunday, loyalists of the faction, led by Alhaji Salisu Yusuf Majigiri, gathered to reiterate their support for Atiku in order to ward off insinuations that they were working against the party. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[468,60],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_0',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');Addressing newsmen, Majigiri said, “We don’t see any sign of reconciliation. We are moving forward and you know we are for Atiku Abubakar, we are the true lovers of Atiku Abubakar.”