The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has said 16 people died and 83 sustained various degrees of injury in the truck accident involving PDP supporters in Mangu, Plateau State. The FRSC said the truck was carrying 99 supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) when it crashed on Saturday evening at Jwak, Panyam District, Mangu Local Government Area of the state. Mr Peter Longsan, the FRSC Public Enlightenment Officer in the state, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday in Jos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the PDP supporters were returning from the party’s zonal rally held in Pankshin. “It was a lone crash involving a truck conveying people from a political campaign rally of the PDP. “Ninety-nine people were involved, 16 people, mainly adult males, were killed in the crash, while 83 sustained various degrees of injury. “The unfortunate incident occurred as a result of excessive speeding and overloading, which led to a loss of control that resulted to the crash,” he said. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');Longsan explained that the Pankshin Unit Command of the FRSC swiftly responded to the incident, and with the support of passersby and volunteers, moved the injured to hospitals at Panyam and Mangu towns, where they are currently receiving treatment. He added the bodies of the deceased were deposited at Mangu General Hospital, Panyam General Hospital, and Nissi Private Hospital, all in Mangu LGA. Longsan advised motorists in the state to desist from speeding, overloading, dangerous overtaking and ensure that vehicles are used for the purpose they were designed. He also called on motorists, particularly commercial drivers, to instal speed limit devices on their vehicles to avert similar accidents. Meanwhile, Mr Caleb Mutfwang, the PDP governorship candidate in the state, in a statement, condoled the families of those who lost their lives and wished the injured a speedy recovery. The candidate said he was visiting the victims at the various hospitals to ascertain the severity of their condition and the necessary steps to take. (NAN)