Top contenders for this year’s governorship election in Katsina State are billed to attend tomorrow’s town hall meeting to interact with voters ahead of the March election. The event is organised by the Media Trust Group, owners of Daily Trust, Aminiya, Trust TV and Trust Radio in collaboration with the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD); Vision FM, Farin Wata TV and Katsina City News, an online newspaper company, to bring the contestants and electorate together for mutual interaction. The governorship candidates are Dr Dikko Radda (APC), Senator Yakubu Lado (PDP), Engr Nura Khalil (NNPP), Imrana Jaafar Jino (PRP) and Ibrahim Zakari (Talba) of the SDP. The chairman of the Media Trust Group (MTG) debate committee, Dr Suleiman A. Suleiman, said the meeting will allow the governorship candidates to address a mass audience in one fell swoop regarding what they have in store for the state, if elected. He said a carefully selected audience from civil society organisations and other stakeholders will also have the opportunity to ask the candidates questions about their plans, policies and programmes for the state. On his part, the secretary of the local organising committee, Muhamad Danjuma, publisher of Katsina City News, said 350 representatives of CSOs and other trade organisations from all over the state were invited as participants. He added that security forces were notified and have given their commitment to giving the town hall meeting maximum support. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[468,60],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');The meeting will hold at the conference hall of the Katsina State Local Government Service Commission, opposite the state assembly complex, Kaita road, Katsina. It will be chaired by the 5th Waziri of Katsina, Professor Sani Abubakar Lugga, while a former governor of old Kaduna State, Alhaji Abba Musa Rimi, will be the father of the occasion. The proprietor of Vision FM and Farin Wata TV, Alhaji Kabir Matazu and Alhaji Muhammed Kabir Muhammed of Trust Radio, will be the moderators of the meeting. There will be a live broadcast of the event on Trust TV, radio stations and online platforms. 