The Emir of Katsina, Dr Abdulmumini Kabir Usman and that of Daura, Dr Umar Farouq Umar, have called for peace and national unity ahead of the 2023 elections. The two monarchs made the calls separately in their palaces in Katsina and Daura respectively while addressing a crowd that attended turbanning ceremonies held at the two palaces on Saturday. In Katsina, the emir turbaned the Director General of the Nigerian Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ambassador Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar, in a ceremony well attended by members of the diplomatic community as well as other eminent personalities from all over the country. In his address shortly after the turbanning, the emir called on the citizens of the country to embrace one another irrespective of tribal, sectional or religious inclination in order to move the country forward. “Nigeria is gathered here today, you the ones in charge of policy formulation and implementation, do everything within your ability to better the lives of our citizenry. If you do that, Almighty God will be with you, empower you and strengthen you, but if your intention is to protect your personal interests, then you should know that you are not with God,” he said. He added that as the election period was fast approaching, people must exercise restraint and know that God has already decided who will be elected. In Daura, the emir-turbaned Assistant Comptroller of Immigration, Abdulkarim Abdullahi, as the Jakadan Daura Babba. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[468,60],'dailytrust_com-banner-1','ezslot_1',143,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-banner-1-0');The turbanning ceremony was performed at the emir’s palace in Daura by 12 pm and was well attended by prominent personalities from far and near. The new Jakadan Daura Babba is currently the Passport Control officer (PCO) in the Edo State Command of the Nigerian Immigration Service. In his address, the emir called on Nigerians to embrace peace and togetherness before, during and after the general elections for the betterment of the country.