Primary and secondary schools in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) resumed on Monday for the second term session after a three-week holiday. City & Crime gathered that some primary and secondary schools recorded over 70 per cent turnout on resumption. Our reporters who visited some of the schools saw that teachers in both private and public schools were already in their classes conducting lessons for their pupils. Secondary schools in Dutse, Jabi, Wuse, Jahi and Gudu districts recorded high turnout of students. Mrs Yemi Badmus, the school proprietress of Early Starters Academy, a private school in Byazhin Across, Kubwa, said academic activities for the new session had begun in earnest and as such teachers had commenced their lessons. She said most of the schools recorded an appreciable turnout of students and staff. “Most of my friends who are also school owners said they recorded over 65 per cent turnout of students in their schools,” she said. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');At Daily Access Science Academy, Bwari, City & Crime reports that academic activities had commenced in earnest. A student of the school, Faridat Hussein, said she was happy back in the school, adding that even though she was undergoing lesson though the break, there are new things to learn at the school setting. Low turnout of pupils at Kubwa schools One of our reporters, who visited some public primary and secondary schools in Kubwa, however, observed low turnout of pupils with teachers trying to use encouragement measures to boost compliance. At the LEA Kubwa 1 Primary School, a teacher, Ameh Baba, put the level of compliance at 40 per cent. He said those that came were engaged in revision as well as resumption test to encourage turnout. A parent, Alhaji Ibrahim Yusuf, said his children went to school on time, adding that he provided all the necessary books to encourage his children to concentrate on their studies. The Chairman of the FCT Universal Basic Education Board, Dr Hassan Sule, also visited some public schools in the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) and expressed satisfaction with the students’ turnover at the schools. City & Crime reports that the chairman visited Aco Model Junior Secondary School as well as Nomadic Primary School,  Apo-Dutse among others,  all in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC).  By Seun Adeuyi & Adam Umar