Pharmaceutical companies have enjoined the government to implement policies that will encourage local production of drugs. The Chief Executive Officer of Sygen Pharmaceutical Limited, Charles Ogunwuyi, who gave the charge said there is need to drive the total well-being of communities. He said, “Sygen Pharmaceutical was established to grant access to high-quality medicines that yield successful outcomes and improve the quality of life of patients in our community; through our innovative approach to enhancing healthcare outcomes. “At Sygen, we look beyond the functionality of providing medicines and seek to drive the total well-being of communities in a way that is vital to society. “There is a need in the pharmaceutical industry to shift the focus from humans as patients to people living in thriving communities. “Sygen Pharmaceutical puts this in practice with the goal of promoting communal well-being and thriving communities.” He said the company has made over $20m investment since it started operation in 2019, adding that Sygen decided to go into drug manufacturing instead of importation of drugs in order to bridge the huge gap in the sector. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_2',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');He said Sygen Pharma plans to drive innovation in the pharmaceutical industry with the aim of promoting overall communal well-being for all Nigerians by creating access to high-quality medicines that yield successful outcomes and improve patients’ quality of life in the communities it operates. He stressed that in its bid to expand its pharmaceutical product portfolio and reduce the country’s dependence on imported medicines, Sygen Pharma subsequently acquired the assets of Nigerian German Chemicals Plc (NGC), a company that had operated in Nigeria for almost 60 years and has a range of legacy brands with strong residual equity in its product portfolio. He said in addition to improving the portfolio of branded products acquired from NGC, Sygen will continue to grow its product portfolio across various therapeutic areas. 