Over 250 indigent women in Nyanya/Karu ward of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) have received cash donations to help boost their businesses. Presenting the gifts to the beneficiaries in Abuja over the weekend, the Zonal Secretary, North Central of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon Yakubu Muhammed Adamu, said the global economic crisis called for more intervention for women, as they were more likely to transfer the benefits to their families. Adamu, who said the initiative was an annual project his wife started nine years ago, added that it has so far supported over a thousand vulnerable women and widows in Nyanya/Karu ward, empowering them with capital and skills to enable them to become self-reliant. He lauded the qualities of the APC senatorial candidate for FCT, Hon. Angulu Dobi, saying the two-time chairman of Gwagwalada Area Council and former secretary of the FCT Transport Secretariat was a seasoned and committed grassroots politician who will contribute to the success of the party in the forthcoming election. Some political heavyweights from the APC, who graced the event, urged the beneficiaries to make good use of the money to expand their businesses while supporting their families. In her remarks, the FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Aliyu, commended Hon. Adamu for the initiative to empower women, whom she said were critical to political victory. The minister, who was represented by her special assistant on Political Matters, Abubakar Adenike, called on women to support the party in the forthcoming general elections. The chairman of the FCT chapter of APC, Hon Abdulmalik Usman, commended the zonal secretary and his wife for the laudable project which, he said, was reflective of the humane and progressive nature of the APC. He urged participants and beneficiaries to ensure victory of the APC at the National Assembly, pledging that the party’s candidates would push for laws that would allow for more seats for the FCT in the National Assembly. “The opposition has been in the National Assembly for years now, but how many laws have they sponsored asking for more seats for FCT residents or even a mayoral seat for Abuja? They are just there for their own personal interest. “With the APC at the Senate and House of Representatives, I assure you that we will get more slots at the National Assembly and push for mayoral position for Abuja.” On his part, the senatorial candidate of the APC, Hon. Angulu Dobi, stressed that it will no longer be business as usual where the opposition sits tight at the red chamber.