About 40 female candidates contesting for political positions on the platforms of the various political parties have converged on Kaduna for a two-day mentoring and coaching session aimed at enhancing their skills and ensuring their victory in the elections. The women were drawn from the seven states in the North West geopolitical zone – Sokoto, Zamfara, Kebbi, Kaduna, Jigawa, Kano and Katsina. Speaking at the mentoring and coaching session, yesterday in Kaduna, Hawwah Gambo, who is contesting for the Chikun/Kajuru Federal Constituency seat on the African Democratic Congress (ADC), said the transition that the country’s electioneering process has undergone has eliminated 99 per cent chances of electoral malpractice and rigging. She however maintained that the electorate could be sure that the result of the 2023 election is going to be 99 per cent accurate to their votes. Another candidate, Zainab Muhammad Sada, contesting for the Katsina Central Senatorial seat under the National Rescue Movement (NRM), said some local governments were out of reach because of the problem of banditry. Sada, who contested for the same position in 2019, expressed optimism that there would be more women’s representation in 2023. However, Barrister Amina Faruk, who is contesting for the Gabasawa/Gaisawa Federal Constituency in Kano State under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said many women have come out to contest for different positions. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[250,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');She commended her party, the PDP, for conducting primaries where three women emerged, unlike the other parties that anointed their candidates. Amina, whose father was a deputy governor, said, “I have won already by the grace of the Almighty.” The Executive Director, Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC), Dr Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi, said the programme, which is supported by the Canadian embassy and the United Nations women, is aimed at promoting, mentoring and coaching of females across Nigeria. 