Bendel Insurance have continued their perfect run in the 2022/23 abridged Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) as they defeated visiting Remo Stars 3-0 at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City yesterday in the Match Day four fixtures. The ‘Benin Arsenal’ got to a perfect start when Imade Osarenkhoe who is now the joint leading top scorer opened the scoring in the fifth minute to be the first player to score against Remo Stars this season. It will be noted that Remo Stars prior to this game were the only team in the NPFL to concede a goal. Buoyed by the goal, the hosts kept the pressure up on the Remo defence and came close to scoring on three occasions, but were not clinical enough in the front of the goal. In the 25th minute, Sarki Ismael made amends for the misses to increase his side lead and ensure the first half ended 2-0. At the restart of the second half, Remo Stars pushed forward to get back into the game but were unlucky in their attempts and were duly punished in the 78th minute when Austine Ogunye made it 3-0 to further extinguish any hope from the Blue Sky to make a comeback. The Benin side have now won all the four games played this season while condemning the Ikenne side to its first loss of the season. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');Insurance have now displaced Remo on top of Group A table to lead with 12 points. In the same vein, NPFL champions Rivers United sealed another away win after a come-from-behind win over Dakkada FC at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium in Uyo. United went, saw and defeated their hosts 2-1 in a week four encounter to seal their third win of the season in Uyo. The Pride of Rivers’ two goals, scored by Naibe Akpesiri and Nyima Nwangwa, helped to cancel Isaac George’s early goal for Dakkada. After a five-goal thriller against Dakkada last season, Stanley Eguma’s side have now their second consecutive game in Uyo. Rivers United now has a four-point lead at the top of the Group B table after three victories and a draw in four games. Meanwhile, the Match Day 4 games continue today with Enyimba hosting Kwara United while Akwa United host Plateau United. Wikki Tourists will play host to Doma United just as Abia Warriors will be guests to Sunshine Stars. Niger Tornadoes trade tackles with Enugu Rangers while Lobi Stars clash with Bayelsa United. Ek-Kanemi battle Shooting Stars in Ibadan while Nasarawa will seek its first league win against Gombe United.