Millennials aren’t just entering the workforce—they are also stepping into senior managerial positions, leadership, and entrepreneurial roles. They dislike rigid corporate structures and have an immense affinity for emerging technology and the digital world. Interesting this crowd in the overly lengthy presentations and other dry tactics we’ve used with the baby boomer generation is tough. If you’re having trouble capturing the attention of the new generation of decision-makers, here are some digital tactics to help revamp your campaigns.  Most brands believe developing and promoting superior or unique products/services is enough for a differentiator, except they are half right. Your differentiator isn’t limited to your offerings, it’s also about what staff across the organization do, every day. And how they do it. Creating a sustainably distinctive enterprise is what will sum up your differentiating factors. Consider the following: Once you’ve listed these factors, you can now brainstorm ways to smoothen issues, promote internal collaboration and employ systems to support and facilitate customer experiences.  For many years now, video has been considered part of the greater content strategy. This strategy has since evolved into a fully-fledged strategy capable of attracting, holding audience attention, and driving conversions. Top practices include: Examples of useful video types include educational video blogs, case studies, product overview videos, use cases, free demos, and video integration tutorials.  Phone calls are part of everyday business—we connect with customers, negotiate deals, answer queries, make follow-ups, and just about everything else. If you’re trying to secure new customers, making cold calls works faster than other tactics. You can gauge voice nuances to know their interest in your solutions and serve up your value proposition clearly. Best practices include: You can opt to work with a lead generation agency to help with this strategy.  This strategy brings together the expertise of your customer-facing personnel to engage a select group of high-value accounts requiring tailored marketing. Through marketing and social intelligence, you can monitor trigger events at a target account and then brainstorm the fundamentals needed, like mapping, offers, and metrics. Consider this:  Customers comprise people, and these people have friends in other organizations. If they are happy with your brand, they will talk about it. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-large-mobile-banner-1','ezslot_3',184,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-large-mobile-banner-1-0');If they are unhappy, they will talk about it. Making customer interactions pleasant may help increase brand loyalty and positive word of mouth. Practical tips include: When consumers know what to expect and their expectations are met, their loyalty to you increases and makes it easier for them to refer you. 