Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari, for his “sustained efforts” to defeat Boko Haram insurgents and bandits terrorising and destroying parts of the country. Governor Wike made this commendation at the Government House, Port Harcourt, after the wreath laying ceremony to mark the 2023 Armed Forces Remembrance Day. The governor noted that after the civil war broke, the armed forces quelled the ensuing rebellion, which ended after three gruesome years of warfare. He added that ever since, there was hardly a year when the armed forces have not been assigned to one bloody combat mission or the other, either within or outside the country. The armed forces, he said have also been at war with Boko Haram and other armed gangs in the North-West and North-East parts of the country and the “unknown gunmen” in the South-East. He said, “I commend our President, General Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, for his sustained efforts at defeating the Boko Haram insurgents and bandits terrorizing and destroying our communities in parts of our country. The restoration of peace to our troubled geo-political regions and the conduct of free and fair general elections are the best legacies you can live for our country. “As leaders, our goal must be one Nigeria, one destiny, and the challenges of building a more fair, inclusive and just society are not beyond us. Therefore, I will not relent in my prayers to God to enable Mr President and other leaders of our country to succeed in our mission and commitments to our country.” Wike said a grateful country honours its armed forces’ extraordinary bravery and courage during their service and the sacrifice of their families for the common good. According to him, many members of the armed forces have paid the maximum price or been maimed while fighting in numerous battles. “We respect them for the dangerous professional path they willingly chose and love them as our children, relations, friends and members of our communities in the nation’s service.” “But they loved us more and even more significantly as fellow Nigerians by risking their lives, health, family and future on the battlefields to defend and protect us from harm’s way in return for almost nothing. “We owe them a great deal as a nation. We owe them as States. We owe them as a people. Collectively, we owe them a debt we cannot repay. Although the much we can do on this day is to extoll their virtues, commemorate their sacrifice and honour their heroic exploits so that they would never be forgotten for putting their lives on the line for us and others to live.” The governor maintained that the country must move beyond courtesies, speeches and parades to consider the families, including the innocent women and children directly devastated and thrown into untold hardship by the death or incapacitation of their breadwinners at the battlefield. He recommended that those suffering from various health challenges, including post-traumatic stress disorders, should have the best healthcare and attention from the public purse.