The Nigerian aviation industry came in third in the complaint received by the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) in 2022. The commission received 674 aviation-related complaints according to statistics by the commission. Topping the 2022 list is financial services with 5,709 complaints; second, electricity and power with 3,293; telecommunications, 605; and E-commerce, 508. Others are electrical electronics, 415; food and beverages, 222; satellite/cable services, 122; postal/courier services, 71; road transport, 69; land/construction, 65; real estate/mortgages, 63; health services, 52; and education, 29. The total number of complaints received by the commission from its headquarters and zonal offices was 13,580 from January to December 2022. Sectoral analysis of complaints resolved showed that out of the total number of 13,580 complaints received, 3,327 were resolved. The figure showed an increase of about 30 per cent compared to 2021 when the commission received 10,178 complaints and resolved 1990. Speaking on the aviation industry statistics, the Director Operations, FCCPC, Dr Adamu Abdullahi, listed the complaints received to include delays, cancellations, pilfered baggage, lost baggage, airport experience, general condition of the terminals, cooling system, and discourteous service, among others. “Essentially delays, cancellations, lost and pilfered baggage.” According to him, the complaints were lodged on their website www.fccpc.gov.ng requesting details of the complainant, phone number, and others to receive feedback. Adamu, who was once in the apex aviation regulatory authority, NCAA, as a director in charge of consumer affairs, explained that there was an understanding with aviation that whenever there is a complaint that has to do with the sector, there must be a time limit within which a response is expected. He, however, frowned at the failure of airlines to let their passengers know if there was a problem. He said, “Most times, if you explain to passengers what is happening, they can understand, but the problem is, operators, don’t get out and tell the public what is actually going on with their operations. “You buy a ticket, you come and sit in the airport for hours on end, and you don’t even get any sort of information on the status of your flight and that really angers passengers. “If you normally carry them along and tell them, these are the challenges that you are facing, it normally brings down tempers, and that is always what we encourage our service providers to do in the airlines.” The FCCPC operations director explained that currently, the commission is working on a Memorandum of Understanding, (MoU) with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and all sectors of consumer protection because they have the core competencies and laws to address their sectors.