Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has charged residents of Edo not to vote politicians allegedly fighting him over refusal to share the state’s money and contracts to friends and political associates. Obaseki said this in Benin, the state capital, during the launch of Edo State Flood Erosion and Watershed Management Agency( EdoFEWA). The project was launched following the closure of Nigeria Erosion Watershed Management Project(NEWMAP). “Let me go political, we spent $150 million on NEWMAP projects. I didn’t own contractors involved in this project, we paid all our counterpart fund as at when due. “Why are they fighting Obaseki? They said I could have shared the money, I could have given the contracts to friends and political associates but if I had done that, we wouldn’t have addressed the severe flooding and gully erosion problems ravaging our communities.” Obaseki who didn’t mentioned any name, said Edo people must not allow those fighting him for money and contracts come back to power. “My appeal to you is that election is coming, we must not let them come back because their fight is not about us but how to share the money meant for the people. “If you allow them come in what ever name, all they are interested is how to share the money, not to solve the environment or erosion control or projects. “What you people did for me in September 19, 2020 is what you are going to do in February and March when we go to the poll. Edo must be for Edo, it can’t be for few people or people outside Edo who want to determine what happened and who governs or determines. We don’t have too much money but what we have is enough to do what we are doing now. It doesn’t matter the fight, but I know I have Edo people to support me,” he said. Obaseki and Adams Oshiomhole, his predecessor fell apart midway into his first term as governor. Oshiomhole, who played a key role in the emergence of Obaseki, worked against him in 202o, but the governor succeeded. Oshiomhole is now contesting a senate seat in Edo, and also campaigning aggressively for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC).