The Criminal Investigation Department,  Lagos Command, has arrested 55-year-old Oluwole Akande for allegedly impersonating the Commissioner of Police, Railway Command, Yetunde Longe, and defrauding an 80-year-old man of N250 million. Longe, who confirmed the arrest to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Lagos, said that she got a call from CP Frank MBA, a former Force spokesperson, on the matter. She said the victim’s wife called Mba to intimate him of an alleged plan by one CP Longe to demand millions of naira from her husband so as to drop a petition on her table against him. “CP Frank Mba replied to the wife of the victim that he knows CP Yetunde Longe cannot make such mischievous demand and promised to call her to verify and get back to the woman. How man defiled 9-year-old pap seller in market – Police Police intercept 325 live ammunition, arrest 2 suspects in Zamfara “CP Frank Mba called me to relate the matter and I confirmed that the information was totally wrong. I said there was no petition of such before me and I don’t even know the victim. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');“It was at this time the State CID Panti was informed to trace the suspect and he was apprehended. He confessed to having impersonated me,” Longe said. Speaking with NAN, the suspect, the suspect who claimed to live in Ojokoro area of Lagos, said he started the business of impersonation in 2022, stressing that CP Longe was the only person he had used. Akande said after he discovered his victim, he decided to frame him up on an issue he knew nothing about by calling to inform him of a petition concerning an illegal business the victim was involved in. He claimed he was the only person involved in the crime, stressing that he knew the impersonation would dent the image of CP Yetunde Longe, but that he never knew it would backfire. Further investigations by NAN into the case revealed that after N1.5 million was paid, the suspect through other means allegedly collected more money from the victim amounting to N250 million. NAN also gathered that the victim reportedly sold two of his houses and a filling station to meet the demands of the suspect until his wife contacted CP Frank Mba, which led to his arrest.(NAN) 