The auto industry in Nigeria in 2022 continues to battle the challenge of non-passage of the National Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) Bill also known as Auto Policy Bill which would have given them some incentives as well as attracted some foreign investments into the sector. Like the previous year, the year is fast running out without the Auto policy even sent to the National Assembly not to talk of being signed into law. Be that as it may, some few players in the industry managed to launch a few cars into the Nigerian market for the benefit of the car enthusiasts. Here are some cars which were released in the outgoing year with majority of them assembled locally: Changan Star 9 Bus Passing LG autonomy bill, biggest challenge to constitution amendment – Omo-Agege Passing LG autonomy bill, biggest challenge to constitution amendment – Omo-Agege The Changan Star 9 Bus debuted in Nigeria to combat the menace of unsafe mini commercial buses. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');The mini bus was described as “a genuine and tropicalized alternative,” which has come to ease the pain of commercial drivers. Known as Changan Star 9, its body language is that of a rescue mission. Characterized with safety, body strength, practicality and powerful engine with fuel efficiency, Changan Star 9 is positioned to be a game changer in the nation’s mini buses segment marketed by Zahav Automobile Co., Nigeria’s official representative of Changan automobile brand. Santa Fe and Elantra Hyundai Nigeria Limited unveiled two new brands in May including the Santa Fe SUV and Elantra, both high-tech vehicles with improved styling, comfort, equipment and segment leading safety features. Head of Sales and Marketing, Mr. Gaurav Vashisht described the new Santa Fe as a product of continuous research into making Hyundai vehicles safer and more comfortable for customers. Unlike its predecessor, he said the new Santa Fe provides ample seating for a family of seven and elevated the elegantly styled, high-technology SUV to another level, leading to a significant improvement in collision safety and maximizing vehicle stability on top of larger interior space. On its part, the All-New, 7th generation Hyundai Elantra was said to have undergone significant changes, delivering the most progressive in-vehicle experience in its class. Geely Azkarra Mikano Motors, one of the newest players in the automotive industry, proved many doubting Thomases wrong by releasing three different brands in the outgoing year. In April, the firm unveiled its all-new flagship luxury SUV from its Geely Nigeria lineup, the Geely Azkarra. Following a highly successful pre- sale period, the launch event was mapped out to demonstrate the beauty, luxury and surprising power of the Azkarra SUV. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-large-leaderboard-2','ezslot_4',153,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-large-leaderboard-2-0');This was the third in the line-up since the partnership between Geely and Mikano was birthed about three years ago. The General Manager, Mikano Motors, Ralph Haidar, explained that Mikano Motors offers the best value for car purchases currently obtainable in Nigeria including the five-year/150,000 km warranty, Mobile workshop, VIP Courtesy service, guaranteed resale value and the confidence from Mikano International’s legacy quality, after- sales prowess, assurance for peace of mind and overall, the best value for your auto investment. Similarly, Mikano also launched the Maxus brand, joining the ZNA (Rich6) and Geely brands which have an existing partnership with Mikano. The Bronco Rebirth Courtesy of Coscharis Motors Plc, a leading automobile dealer in Nigeria and the exclusive distributors of Ford, the Bronco was birthed at this year’s Lagos Motor Fair held at Victoria Island in the Centre of Excellence. The bespoke and commanding Sports Utility Vehicle was a cynosure of all eyes at the fair, exuding elegance and incredible aesthetics that no automobile enthusiast would shun. The Bronco comes with a standard 300-hp turbocharged 2.3-liter four-cylinder or an optional 330-hp twin-turbo 2.7-liter V-6. A 10-speed automatic transmission bolts to both gas engines, but a seven-speed manual is only compatible with the smaller one. All-new Mercedes-Benz C-Class The all-new C-Class is described as the perfect combination of comfort and performance built with the singular objective of helping people escape the stress of everyday life into a luxurious retreat, into their own comfort zone. Being one of Mercedes-Benz’s best sellers & longest running model series, over 10.5 million Mercedes-Benz C-Class models have been delivered to customers globally since its inception in 1982. The most prominent highlight in the all-new C-Class is most certainly the latest generation of the Mercedes-Benz User Experience (MBUX) infotainment system, which is more intuitively operated and has a higher learning capacity. 