Tractor owners and operators in the Kadawa irrigation region of Kano State are making brisk business as the dry season farming has begun. Farmers in the area are taking advantage of the irrigation to engage in a number of crops throughout the year which in turn paves way for many people to earn a means of livelihood. Harrowing, tillage and dice levelling are some of the basic requirements in farming which are usually done with the aid of tractors. This has given a chance to many people to engage in the business either by owning tractors or serving as labourers. Apart from them, others like mechanics, diesel and spare parts sellers are also benefiting. During a visit to the irrigation area, many tractors were sighted working on large farms. Speaking to our reporter, owner of one of the tractors, Hamisu Nasiru, said he had been in the business for the past 15 years and that he started as an operator and now owned a tractor. He said although tractors were very expensive and difficult to handle, the way they worked in the area had given them chances to cope with all the expenses and even count profits. He explained that, “Every business is like this. Despite all the difficulties we still count profit, but sometimes we run at a loss. Foe every hectare we charge N35,000 to N40,000 and in a day we can do only up to five hectares in a day because it is the dry season and the sand is strong. But in the rainy season we can do up to 10 hectares in a day because the land is soft at that time. Also speaking, Alhaji Aminu Umar Chiromawa, who owns a tractor, said his biggest challenge was that the tractor was too fragile and could easily get damaged, noting spare parts were very expensive. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');He further said, “I was selling spare parts of tractors, but when I got familiar with the drivers I decided to buy my own five years ago. I bought a second hand for N2.5m and later sold it and got a new one for N5.9m in Lagos. That was when it was not as expensive. A new one is now around N10m. “We get more than N160,000 in a day, but diesel is expensive. Likewise engine oil and other spare parts. So, if you are not lucky and the machine develops failure all what you get may go to mechanics and spare parts dealers.”