Nasarawa State governor, Abdullahi Sule, has said Northern governors who are members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will use their resources to ensure that the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu wins the February 25 poll. Sule spoke while flagging off the campaign of the party’s senatorial candidate for Nasarawa West, Architect Shehu Tukur in Kokona LGA of the state at the weekend. He said if there is anybody that wants Tinubu to become president, it is the APC Northern governors. “APC Northern governors will use their resources to ensure that Tinubu emerges president of the country. If there is anybody that wants Tinubu to become president, it is the APC Northern governors. “Only God can stop Tinubu and A. A Sule from becoming president and governor respectively. We are determined to commit our resources and strength to conquer any form of opposition. “Our goal is to return Tinubu, our three senators, five House of Representatives and 24 state assembly members as elected,” he said. Sule said it is only God that gives power to whom he wills at the appointed time, but said he is prepared to face any form of opposition. He, however, called on the people to ensure they vote for candidates of the APC from top to bottom and vowed to deliver Tinubu and all other APC candidates. The governor again dismissed claims that 11 governors of the APC were holding secret meetings with the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar. “These are blatant lies. The APC Northern governors stood firm for Tinubu to emerge, they will do anything to make him president. Disregard any of such lies emanating from people who are seeking favours from Tinubu,” he stated. The National Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, urged the people to vote for all the candidates of the party from top to bottom. In a welcome address, state Chairman of the APC, Chief John Mamman, dismissed insinuations from the opposition that the ruling APC has not achieved anything in its four years of stewardship.