The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council has said President Muhammadu Buhari has shown personal commitment to the party’s campaign and indicated his readiness to be physically present at some of the forthcoming campaign rallies. In a statement on Friday, the Director of Public Affairs and Chief Spokesperson, Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council, Festus Keyamo (SAN) said in the latest campaign time table released on Thursday, the president is billed to join the campaign trail in at least ten states. Keyamo, who is Minister of State for Labour and Employment, said Buhari is committed to delivering the APC presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu in the election. Part of the statement reads, “Recall that Mr. President, out of his very busy schedule, had earlier attended the flag-off of the presidential campaign in Jos on the 15th of November, 2022. This was also after graciously accepting to be the Chairman of the Presidential Campaign Council of the ruling party. Tinubu: Obasanjo’s endorsement of Obi poison for Nigeria Tinubu flaunts dance skill as mammoth crowd &#8216;shuts down&#8217; Kano “In the latest campaign time table released yesterday (5th January, 2023) the President is billed to join the Campaign Train in at least ten States. “The states are Adamawa State on the 9th of January; Yobe State on the 10th of January; Sokoto State on the 16th of January; Kwara State on the 17th of January; Ogun State on the 25th of January; Cross Rivers State on the 30th of January; Nassarawa State on the 4th of February; Katsina State on the 6th of February; Imo State on the 14th of February and the Grand Finale in Lagos State on the 18th of February. “The PCC expresses its profound gratitude to President Buhari, the leader of our great party, for his sterling and inspirational leadership at this time and for galvanising our teeming members and supporters across the country. “We urge our party faithfuls and supporters to turn out en masse, as usual, in the forthcoming campaign rallies. The zero hour is nigh; our spirits must be high; we must not relent in this our collective march to our victory that is divinely ordained.”