No fewer than 18 people have been injured in multiple accidents involving over 30 people in Kwara State. It was gathered that the incident occurred at the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) checkpoint after Pasa bridge in Eyenkorin after a brake failure. City & Crime observed that the checkpoint had witnessed a similar accident that left one officer killed and another seriously injured on Tuesday. A resident, Alfa Salaudeen, commenting on the latest incident, told our correspondent on Wednesday that “The NAF officers had stopped various oncoming vehicles at their checkpoint after the first accident. “But unfortunately a trailer rammed into them after a brake failure. Many of the victims sustained head injuries and several fractures. 54m people must elect next president – Coalition NUPENG threatens strike over burning of 2 HPFO-laden tankers if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[468,60],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');“The problem is that the spot is sloppy and that is why the residents have called for the relocation or outright removal of the checkpoint,” Salaudeen added. Salaudeen, with other residents, who witnessed the mishaps, claimed four people died. He added that the casualties would have been more as another oncoming trailer which also lost its brakes veered off into the bush. The Kwara State Commandant of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Frederick Ade Ogidan, who confirmed the incident, said no lives were lost but “many sustained serious injuries’’. “The first accident involved a green-coloured Peugeot 406 with registration number KNT08JF and a white Toyota Corolla (PTG962AA), which left five people injured out of the six involved. “But the second accident involved four vehicles – a silver Mazda Premacy  (APP665GX), a blue Toyota Camry (GGE279HU), a grey Honda Accord and a white Mack trailer involving 30 persons.” He attributed the crashes to overspeeding and brake failure, adding that the victims have been taken to the Ilorin General Hospital. 