The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has suspended Senator Chimaroke Nnamani for anti party activities. Nnamani, a serving senator, had endorsed Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who like him belings to the class of ’99 governors. While Tinubu was Lagos governor between 1999 and 2007, Nnamani governed Enugu state between that period. Nanmani’s susoension was announced in a statement by Hon. Debo Ologunagba, National Publicity Secretary of the party. He said the NWC took the decision after an extensive review and consideration of the affairs of the Party and pursuant to the provisions of the PDP Constitution (as amended in 2017). Ologunagba said the suspension which took effect from Friday, January 20, 2023, became necessary because of allegations of anti-party activities against the party members. In a related development the party has also dissolved the Ekiti State Executive Committee of the party and set up a caretaker committee to run the affairs of the party for the next three months. Atiku to PDP members: You&#8217;ll show election results to get appointments, contracts PDP, APC billboards pulled down in Sokoto for violating environmental laws Following the dissolution, the NWC also approved the suspension of some Party members in Ekiti State with effect from Friday, January 20, 2023, also over allegations of anti-party activities. The suspended members in Ekiti State are;
1. Ayeni Funso -(Ekiti North)
2. Ajijola Lateef Oladimeji -(Ekiti Central) Others are;
1. Emiola Adenike Jennifer -(Ekiti South II)
2. Ajayi Babatunde Samuel -(Ekiti North II)
3. Olayinka James Olalere -(Ekiti Central)
4. Akerele Oluyinka -(Ekiti North I)
5. Fayose Oluwajomiloju John -(Ekiti Central I) Ologunagba said the PDP urges all leaders, critical stakeholders and teeming members of the Party across the country to “remain united and focused on the mission of our Party to Rescue, Rebuild and Redirect our nation from misrule.”