The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State has asked the speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, to stop the constituency allowances of member representing Ajaokuta Federal Constituency, Lawal Idirisu, following his defection from the ruling party. The party also wants the lawmaker to refund salaries and other benefits he had received from the National Assembly prior to his defection from the APC to the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP). The APC, through its counsel, J.U. Usman, in a letter to the speaker, urged Gbajabiamila to declare Idirisu’s seat vacant pursuant to his defection from the APC as contained in Section 68(1) (G) and (2) of the 1999 Constitution as amended. “That sometimes in May 2022, knowing that he was elected on the platform of APC to serve between 2019 to 2023, the said Hon. Lawal Muhammadu Idirisu defected to New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) where he emerged as the flag bearer on the 20th day of May 2022, respect of 2023 General Elections for House of Representatives, Ajaokuta Federal Constituency before the expiration of the period for which the current House of Representatives was elected. Major marketers jerk petrol price to N190/Ltr Investigation: Corrupt practices at NNPC stations compound fuel scarcity “That premise on the above, it is common knowledge that the aforesaid Hon. Lawal Muhammadu Idirisu automatically lost his seat at the House of Representatives as a member representing the good people of Ajaokuta Federal Constituency having regards to section 68 (1) (g) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) and Suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/1060/20 wherein the Federal High Court Abuja sacked Hon. Yakubu Dogara for defecting from Peoples Democratic Party to All Progressives Congress,” the letter reads in part. The party said despite the defection, the lawmaker has been drawing salaries, allowances and constituency projects’ funds on “the false belief that he is still a member of the House of Representatives.” if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[250,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');Reacting, the lawmaker who spoke through his media aide, Yunusa Muhammad, described the call to declare his seat vacant as ‘laughable’, saying, “the constitutional power to declare a seat vacant rests with the courts and not individuals.”