The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday asked President Muhammadu Buhari to sack the Minister of State for Labour, Festus Keyamo, for allegedly abusing his office. Keyamo, the spokesman for the APC Presidential Campaign Council, had on January 16 issued a 72-hour ultimatum to anti-graft agencies to arrest and probe the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, over alleged corruption cases. After the expiration of the ultimatum, Keyamo, last Friday, filed a suit at the Federal High Court in Abuja seeking an order compelling the anti-graft agencies to arrest and prosecute Atiku. The spokesman for the PDP Presidential Campaign Council, Daniel Bwala, at a press conference in Abuja, yesterday, said Keyamo was using his office to intimidate the agencies of the federal government. He said: “We call on the president to sack the minister of state for labour and employment forthwith for using official position funded by tax payer’s money to interfere with the conduct of free, fair and credible elections.” The PDP also called on the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency to probe the APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, over alleged drug-related offences. Reacting, the APC campaign council described the PDP as copycats. “I’m laughing: these PDP fellows are pathetic: I was told they copied our style and all their spin doctors held a joint conference. Copycats. Nothing new. All old, unproven stories against @officialABAT. What is gripping the nation now is Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV). #Atikugate”, Keyamo tweeted. Meanwhile, the spokesperson of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Kola Ologbondiyan, has urged President Buhari to call a National Security Council meeting to address the threat posed by the formation of the ‘Jagaban Army,’ to the sovereignty of Nigeria. He made the appeal in a statement in Abuja on Sunday. “Nigerians are concerned that since the public outcry over the exposed design by the APC and its presidential candidate to use a parallel army code-named the Jagaban Army, to undermine our national security, affront the Nigeria Army, cause confusion, disrupt the 2023 elections and derail our democratic process, neither the APC Campaign nor Asiwaju Tinubu have disowned the formation or its nefarious plans,” he added.