Sporadic gunshots rented the air at Ikare-Akoko, headquarters of Akoko North-East LGA of Ondo State, for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, sending residents scampering to safety. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) gathered that the firing of guns began on Tuesday when youths from a part of the town staged a New Year carnival. A resident claimed that two lives had been lost, houses and shops had been razed, and properties worth millions of naira destroyed. “Youths of Okoja area of the town organised a New Year carnival on Tuesday at the area’s market square. Buhari renews, makes fresh appointments NAFDAC targets WHO maturity level four for local vaccines highest level “Some people went to disrupt the carnival, however, claiming that the organisers did not obtain approval from the traditional ruler, the Owa-Ale of Ikare. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_2',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');“They burnt the house of the Olokoja, a high chief of the quarters, and that of another chief, while many shops were razed. “I have been informed that they are going to my house to burn it and I don’t know what we people of Okoja quarters did to deserve this,’’ he said. Speaking with NAN, the Owa-Ale of Ikare, Oba Adeleke Adedoyin-Adegbite, said there were no casualties and they had informed security operatives in the town to ensure peace. “When the crisis started on Tuesday and I was informed, I called the attention of the Nigeria Police and commander of the Nigerian Army in the town for peace to reign, which was achieved immediately. “Unfortunately, on Wednesday, some gun-toting people emerged from only God knows where and started shooting sporadically in the direction of a popular junction close to my palace. “I have called the Nigerian Army and the police for their intervention. I am appealing to our people, especially our youths, to shun whatever is capable of disturbing the peace in the town,’’ he said. NAN reports that Ikare had been embroiled in a supremacy battle between the Owa-Ale and the Olukare of Ikare, the two traditional rulers in the town over the years. In August 2022, the state government elevated the Owa-Ale to the status of a first-class traditional ruler, giving the town two first-class obas. SP Olufunmilayo Odunlami-Omisanya, the police spokesperson in Ondo State, confirmed the latest two-day fracas to NAN, and also said no casualties were recorded. “No casualty whatsoever had been recorded to the best of my knowledge. “The warring parties have been warned to maintain peace, policemen and soldiers are patrolling the town to ensure law and order within the area,’’ Odunlami-Omisanya said. (NAN) 