Professor Sani Abubakar Lugga, chairman of the Media Trust Town Hall Meeting with Katsina State gubernatorial candidates, has charged the candidates to fear the Almighty God. Lugga, who is the 5th Waziri of Katsina, said this in his opening address at the meeting which is ongoing. He appealed to the candidates to be mindful of their promises and tell the audience what is reasonable. He also called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies to also have the fear of God in their activities. Katsina gov’ship: Radda, Lado, Khalil, Jino, Talba for Daily Trust town hall meeting Saturday NNPP vows to sack APC in Katsina, end insecurity “We gathered the candidates to tell Katsina people what they have for them and for the people to ask them what they are expecting from them. “We should fear God and promise what we can do, not to just get votes. We should remember that we will explain to God what we said and what we are going to do. God Almighty has given too much emphasis on issues of promise. “I call on you to tell people what is reasonable and the promises that you can deliver and leave everything to God,” he said. For the voters, he also asked them to fear God and avoid what is not right. “Only God can give leadership and He has laid down rules for leadership which must be followed. We should vote for the right people. “INEC should fear God and ensure that they give what people voted for. For the security personnel, they should also fear Allah,” he said. The epoch-making event was organised by the Media Trust Group, with support from the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD). Notable media organisations like Vision FM, Farin Wata TV and Katsina City News – an online newspaper, are among the partners. You can follow the townhall live via our social media handles and also tune to Trust TV, Channel 164 on Star Times. All Trust TV handles are also covering the event live, same with the handles of Aminiya, our Hausa publication. Photo credit: Ismail Mudashir