The Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd), has warned that unrepentant drug barons and cartels will face tougher times in 2023 if they fail to back out of the illicit drug business. Marwa gave the warning on Wednesday in Abuja at a media briefing to update the public on efforts by the agency to rid the country of illicit substance abuse and drug trafficking on the second anniversary of his leadership of the anti-narcotics body. “Last year, I issued a New Year appeal to them and also warned that those who refused to heed the warning will find themselves in a difficult situation. Already, we have 34 barons in our net and they are facing the music in court. We have secured orders for the temporary forfeiture of their assets. “With our prosecution being topnotch, they can look forward to a long time in prison and final forfeiture of their wealth and assets. Why we’re building barracks for NDLEA personnel – Marwa Germany records over 280 attacks on Police, Fire services in one night “Those involved in the illicit drug trade should take a cue from our actions. They can again look forward to a tough time this year,” Marwa said. According to him, the signs of what to come are clear as the agency in the first two weeks of this year took down three major drug cartels, one of which has built extensive networks across the world while at least six of their kingpins are in NDLEA custody. Marwa said that the details will be released in the coming days. He said, “In these two years, we arrested 26,458 drug traffickers, among them, 34 barons. In 24 months, we successfully prosecuted 3,733 offenders who were convicted and handed various jail terms in court. “Of the conviction figure, 2,346 were recorded in 2022 alone, which is the highest in the history of the agency and almost doubled the highest ever recorded in the 33 years of NDLEA. This is not happenchance but a result of professionalism, determination, commitment and hard work of our officers, men and women.” Describing 2022 as an epoch year, Marwa said, “We took a giant leap in drug demand reduction with the establishment and commissioning of the NDLEA drug abuse call centre which broadened access to treatment and rehabilitation. It was a year we had unprecedented support too, notably from the Governors’ Wives Forum which made commitments to broaden and deepen social efforts to ameliorate the consequences of drug abuse. “We also had support from our international partners, chiefly the UNODC, counterparts and governments of the United States, France, Germany, United Kingdom, India, and South Korea. The support came in the form of donations of equipment, training, intelligence and other logistics.” While assuring Nigerians that the agency is firmly on the task of making Nigeria safe from illicit substances, the NDLEA boss said such may sound like an impossibility but is achievable. He also warned citizens to be wary in their dealings with people of questionable wealth. He added that the anticipated amendment of the NDLEA Act will be this year and that will strengthen the arm of the agency in its drug law enforcement. He said, “The Proceed of Crime Act 2022 enacted last year has given us new leverage. And I will like to remind those who benefit from the proceeds of drug crimes, this time, families, friends and associates, that our investigations are thorough and where we find any link between a drug baron and private citizens, we shall scrutinize their assets. The onus is now on every citizen, to be honest in their financial dealings with people whose source of wealth is suspect.” He expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari and other stakeholders for their support in the total transformation of the agency and the successes recorded. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-leader-1','ezslot_3',183,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-leader-1-0');