In the early hours of Monday, fun seekers who attended a Burna Boy concert expressed their displeasure at the singer as they waited for hours before the singer mounted the stage to perform. It was gathered that some attendees had been at the venue of the concert since 9 pm on Sunday but the Grammy-award-winning singer did not show up on stage till 3:30 am on Monday. The unapologetic Last Last singer got on stage without remorse an action that irked the crowd who began to boo the singer. In some videos which are circulating around digital spaces, some of the attendees were seen using curse words at the singer. However, the singer gave a brief explanation that the organisers of the event were at fault as some things were not properly put in place. He further told the audience that they should be grateful he showed up to perform. Burna Boy stated that for years rumours have been flying about him. Late Ohanaeze Ndigbo’s president was a reconciliator – ACF Ekiti first lady donates gifts to first baby in 2023 The singer stated that some people alleged that he shot someone at a Lagos club last year, while some others claimed that his mother was a dancer for the late afrobeat legend, Fela Anikulapo Kuti but due to his love for his fans he showed up to perform. He further said, in pidgin, ‘If una no love me, God punish you.’ Burna Boy further seized the opportunity to advise Nigerians to elect the right people into office in the forthcoming elections next month. Some tweeps have taken to their social media account to air their opinions. For instance, the user of the account @Vibes_doctor tweeted, “Imagine what Burna Boy had to say. Zero apologies. He really thinks the concert was a favour to Nigerians.”  Giving a situational report via his verified Twitter account @ade_adeayo the user of the microblogging site posted, “The situation on the ground. Almost 2 am and Burna Boy’s concert is basically yet to start. Some people have been around since 9 pm. For an artiste with the highest level of international exposure, this is beyond terrible and unprofessional.”  However, it was learnt that once the singer began his performance, the tension was doused and the revellers had a fun time at the concert. Commenting on the incident, the Twitter user @1ucheebuka noted that the mood changed when Burna Boy began to perform. “The mood changed inadvertently when the African giant performed Bank on it. Burna Boy made a prayer with Bank on it and to be honest it resonated with my soul, it gave me hope for the new year,” the Twitter user said.  if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[250,250],'dailytrust_com-leader-1','ezslot_4',183,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-leader-1-0');Moreso, @iKON_LVN tweeted, “After seeing the whole remontada of emotions that came with this Burnaboy show, it is very safe to say the African Giant is the total package and a god in this craft. From the hate, to the bragging, to the clearing to the love to the acceptance, ODOGWU really carry us Trabaye.” (sic)   