Residents, motorists, commuters and travelers on the popular Nyanya-Keffi expressway experienced hardship as a result of the ongoing repair work on the Ado bridge in Nasarawa State. One lane of the road linking Ado, Masaka, New Karu, New Nyanya, Auta Balefi, Kuchikau and Keffi towns, all in Nasarawa, has been barricaded following the repair. Our reporter, who visited the area, reported that there was a traffic diversion after the popular Mararaba town, precisely around a U-turn by the Abacha Bus Terminal close to AA Rano Filling Station. The diversion was aimed at stopping motorists from plying the lane where the bridge repair work is ongoing. Some petty traders from Ado, New Karu, New Nayanya, Auta Balefi, Kuchikawu and Masaka who spoke with our reporter said that the development was a threat to their economic fortune. One of them who simply gave his name as Francis, a tailor, said, “I can’t bear it any more. I won’t go to work tomorrow; I can’t kill myself. How can a road be this locked up?” Daily Trust reports that the expressway is the only known route connecting Abuja and Nasarawa State. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');Pregnant women, nursing mothers walk long distances Sequel to the gridlock that occurred for several hours and later resulted in total lockdown on Sunday and Monday night, stranded passengers were seeing walking long distances. Our reporter who went to the scene to observe things first hand, reports that pregnant women, nursing mothers, old men and women, the sick and children were all trekking due to road blockade. When approached for comments, one of the nursing mothers said, “I’m tired, I can’t talk to you now.” But when our reporter persevered, the woman from the North who simply gave her name as Hadiza said,” Imagine, my child is sick; we are just coming from the Medical Centre, Mararaba. This is the worst day of my life.” When contacted, the engineers said the repair would last for seven days. One of them who refused to be named said, “It’s not really a serious work; it’s not a major crack, so it will take about seven days to finish.” 