The chance of Nigeria’s Men basketball team D’Tigers to participate in the final window of the 2023 FIBA Men’s World Cup Qualifier in Luanda, Angola, is hanging in the balance as the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) is cash strapped and waiting on the Federal Ministry of Sports to come to the team’s rescue. The 2023 FIBA Men’s World Cup is scheduled to be held from August 25- September 10 in Japan, Indonesia and Philippines while the final window for qualifiers is to be held from February 20-28, 2023. Daily Trust investigation has revealed that with less than 25 days to the dunk-off of the final window, the NBBF is yet to get funds from either the sports ministry or any of its sponsors for the national team. Meanwhile, D’Tigers are expected to win all their remaining matches in Group E and hope other results go their way for them to stand a chance of picking one of the four tickets in Africa. Kaduna $350m World Bank loan: A success or failure? FG urges parents to allow health workers to deworm children Already, Cote D’Ivoire has picked the first of the five tickets for the continent of Africa. In Group E, Cote D’Ivoire are leading with 14 points, Angola 12, Cape Verde 11, Nigeria 10 while Guinea and Uganda are on 8 points each. In a chat with our correspondent, NBBF Vice-president, Mr. Babatunde Ogunade, confirmed that the federation is cash strapped and is unable to single-handedly fund D’Tigers’ World Cup qualifiers. “Yes it is true that the final window of the qualifiers is next month and it is also true that we have a problem with funding but we are reaching out to the Government because they own the team. “D’Tigers are not representing the NBBF, they represent Nigeria. So, the team is meant to be funded by the Government,” he said. However, Ogunade said the NBBF is not leaving the whole burden on the Government alone as he disclosed that the federation is discussing with its sponsors for support. “We are aware that the Government alone cannot fund sports, so we are also reaching out to our sponsors to support us. That is what we are doing. “The sports ministry is aware that the event must take place and we must participate. Therefore, we will keep pushing the Government and appealing to our sponsors,” he assured. 