Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has said stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) settled for the state deputy governor, Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, as governorship candidate of the party for the March 2023 poll because of the need for continuity. Speaking during a fund raising event organised by Gawuna’s friends in Abuja, Ganduje said the deputy governor was also chosen because of his loyalty, experience, acceptability, education and relationship with others. The governor said there is no other political party in Kano with credentials to defeat Gawuna. Ganduje said, “One cardinal point we used was the continuity of projects because it is very important in governance; continuity in programmes, construction and articulation, so that after building a solid foundation you need continuity in order to make a real legacy. 2022 hajj: CSOs back Ganduje, seek probe of NAHCON over finances, contracts Marriage dissolution: Ganduje’s in-law challenges court’s jurisdiction “Dr. Gawuna is fully aware of our programmes and our projects and we believe that is what makes legacy great – the issue of continuity. And that is the family we are breeding; continuity. We respect it and Insha Allah, we will continue to build on that. “We have all our development issues that we have documented and without continuity, things will be bastardised and you will find out that you are not going far. We believe in issue of continuity. I could remember when I was a deputy governor and I became a governor during the Kwankwaso administration. We planned all the projects he executed together and we did the implementation together. “So, by the time he left I did not need anybody to tell me anything about any project because I knew straight where to start, I knew why the project was concealed and I had no reason to abandon it.” On his part, Gawuna said continuity in government policies and programmes were key to achieving good results, adding that “My experience is crucial, I am prepared to give all I have learnt over the years to serve our state.” Plateau State governor and Director-General of the APC Presidential Campaign Council, Simon Lalong, described the occasion as historic, adding that it behoves on the electorate to take Kano to the next level by voting for the Gawuna/Garo joint ticket.