President Muhammadu Buhari has described ongoing infrastructure development across the country as ‘fantastic’. The president spoke at a State Banquet in Kano to conclude his one-day official visit to the state after inaugurating several projects executed by the federal and state governments as well as the private sector. He inaugurated the Dala Inland Dry Port hosted by the Kano State government in collaboration with the federal government. The project was conceived as part of the federal government’s ports reform programme designed to decongest the seaports, while also taking shipping and port services closer to importers and exporters in the hinterland. The president also inaugurated the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA)-funded 10MW Haske Solar Plant in a 24-hectare land in Kumbotso Local Government of Kano State. Implications of prolonged fasting on your health ‘Why Nigeria needs a Medical Research Council’ if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[250,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');He also inaugurated the Family Homes Funds Estate, Darmanawa, Kano, which consists of 469 affordable housing units with ancillary infrastructure. The president implored citizens to appreciate what they have because the country is not dire when compared with other countries. “When I fly by helicopter, the number of high-rise buildings I see and the amount of development on the ground are fantastic,” he said. He congratulated state governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, for doing very well on infrastructure, adding that his recent visits to Kogi, Yobe, Lagos and Katsina states had shown that the respective governors had done very well, within the confines of funds available to them. Earlier, Kano state governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje said one of the projects inaugurated and named after the president – Muhammadu Buhari Interchange at Hotoro – will help to serve not only Kano citizens but also serve people coming from neighbouring states and countries. He also said the newly commissioned Cancer Treatment Centre at Muhammadu Buhari Specialist Hospital, Giginyu was named after his wife because of her concern for cancer patients especially those battling with breast cancer. Youths pelt Buhari’s chopper, convoy with stones Meanwhile, some youths pelted the aircraft and advance motorcade of the president with stones. Daily Trust gathered that shortly after the president inaugurated the dry port and the independent power project at Kumbotso LGA and was departing Zawaciki to the emir’s palace, the youths aimed stones at the chopper which was already airborne. Another incident reportedly occurred after the advance party departed the palace to Ahmadu Bello Way for the inauguration of the Tier IV Data Centre and Galaxy Backbone Limited Office Complex, some people pelted the vehicles with stones with many running helter skelter to avoid being caught up in the ensuing commotion. At the Hotoro area where he went to inaugurate the Muhammadu Buhari Interchange, youths also took to the streets after the president had departed and were pelting the convoy with stones, a situation that led the security operatives in the convoy to fire warning gunshots into the air and later fire teargas canisters to disperse gathering mob. Daily Trust gathered that after the security left the scene, the youths made bonfires at different locations on the road. Recall that Ganduje had earlier written to the president to reschedule the planned visit, citing discontentment as a result of the fuel scarcity and the new naira notes policy of the CBN. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[250,250],'dailytrust_com-large-leaderboard-2','ezslot_4',153,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-large-leaderboard-2-0');However, the governor said the state was ready to receive the president after he granted an extension of the deadline for the old naira notes. By Muideen Olaniyi (Abuja) & Clement A. Oloyede (Kano)