Operatives of the Ogun Police Command have arrested one Taiwo Olutufese Ajalorun for allegedly killing and dismembering his 26-year-old lover, Oyindamola Adeyemi, in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. Taiwo was arrested alongside his wife, Salawa Oyenusi Ajalorun and six others: Lukman Oladele, Kayode Ibrahim, Bello Akeem, Alebiosu Adebayo, Fatai Rasheed and Fatai Jimoh. The police spokesman in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi told newsmen in Abeokuta on Thursday that the suspects were arrested on Wednesday for kidnapping, killing and dismembering the victim. According to him, the suspects were apprehended following a report lodged at Obalende divisional headquarters in Ijebu-Ode by one Ojo Omolara. He said the complainant reported that her neighbour, Adeyemi, left home since morning of Wednesday, December 28, 2022, and didn’t return home, while her phone was switched off. Oyeyemi said the police advised the complainant to come back “since it is not up to 24hrs yet.” He said the next day, a patrol team from Obalende division saw a dismembered body of a lady by the road side and the body was taken to a mortuary. Oyeyemi said, “Fortunately, the mortuary is a stone’s throw from the house of the deceased and one of the mortuary workers, who knew about the missing person, called the attention of the deceased’s family to come and have a look at the body brought by the police. “On getting there, the deceased’s friend, Ojo Omolara was able to identify it through the bra and underwear she put on since her head was already chopped off. “Having recognized the body, the DPO Obalende division, SP Murphy Salami mobilized his crack detectives and embarked on a technical and intelligence-based investigation which led them to Taiwo Olutufese Ajalorun, an herbalist in whose possession the deceased’s Itel phone was recovered. “He was promptly arrested, and a search warrant was duly executed in his house, where a container full of human blood, later discovered to be that of the deceased, was recovered. “His arrest led to the apprehension of his friend, Lukman Oladele in whose house the legs of the deceased were also recovered. They both made confessional statements which led to the arrest of other suspects who are buyers of different parts of the victim’s body.” The police spokesman said during interrogation Taiwo and Oladele confessed that the deceased was lured to Taiwo’s house. Taiwo was said to be Adeyemi’s lover. Quoting the suspects, he said as soon as the victim entered, “she was pinned down by both Taiwo Olutufese and Lukman Oladele and they subsequently strangled her.” “After killing her, they cut off the head, legs and the two hands which they sold to their standby buyers to be used for money-making rituals,” he added. According to him, the suspects said the legs of the deceased were sold for N30,000, while the heart was sold for N50,000 to Bello. Oyeyemi said the person who bought the head “is still at large.” if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-leader-1','ezslot_3',183,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-leader-1-0');He said the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution.