The Kaduna Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA) has disclosed that the 44th Kaduna International would be held from February 3 to 12. The first deputy president of KADCCIMA, Ishaya Idi made the disclosure yesterday during a visit to the headquarters of Media Trust Group, owners of Daily Trust and Trust TV, in Abuja. Idi said the event, which would witness robust discussion on the business climate of the country would feature several exhibitions of products within and outside Nigeria, adding that the theme of the fair is ‘Promoting Value Addition for Growth and Development.’ “The theme was chosen so as to compliment the efforts of the government in its attempt to promote value addition culture for economic advancement of our dear nation.” Bandits kill community leader, abduct four housewives others in Kaduna Court stops TCN, Kano govt from demolishing structures under power lines He added that the visit to the company was to seek partnership on how the event would be publicised for Nigerians to visit the fair and purchase arrays of products that could be bought outside the country. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[250,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');“Your Organisation for being consistent in the coverage of our activities, especially the annual Kaduna Trade Fair International Trade Fair. We are indeed grateful for this.” He said during the 10-day period, various events are lined up, including: a business roundtable on ‘Effective measures to revitalise textiles.’ He added that the Bangladesh High Commission to Nigeria would be in attendance and local innovators would be invited to speak on their inventions. While assuring participants of their safety during and after the event, he stated that the state is experiencing one of its peaceful periods as pockets of clashes are mostly in the outskirts of the state, which are far from the state capital. In his response, the General Editor of Daily Trust, Hamza Idris stated that the company is ready to partner with the chamber at all times. Idris commended the chamber for taking the issues of the moribund textile industry in the country to the fore. 