The United Bank for Africa Plc has appointed Mrs. Abiola Bawuah as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of UBA Africa. Bawuah will also join the Group Board as an Executive Director, overseeing the Group’s operations across the African continent. UBA operates in 19 African countries beyond Nigeria, in addition to global operations in New York, London, Paris and the UAE. Bawuah, a Ghanaian national, is the first female CEO of UBA Africa. President Buhari inaugurates JK Randle Centre for Yoruba Culture and History Beyoncé Returns to Music With Dubai Performance In a statement, the bank said her appointment further demonstrates UBA’s commitment to diversity as the Group Board now includes eight female Directors. Prior to her appointment, Bawuah was Regional CEO, West Africa, supervising the Group’s operations in nine subsidiaries, including Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mali, Senegal, and Sierra Leone. She previously held the role of CEO, UBA Ghana. Speaking on the new appointment, the Group Board Chairman Mr Tony O. Elumelu said, “Abiola has contributed significantly to the growth of UBA Africa for close to a decade. She brings a wealth of experience in commercial banking, and stakeholder engagement. It also gives me great pleasure that with her appointment, the UBA Group Board has now become a majority female board.” The UBA Group also announced Chris Ofikulu as the Regional CEO, UBA West Africa. Ofikulu has over two decades of banking experience spanning corporate, commercial, and retail banking. Other appointments include Uzoechina Molokwu, who will take on the role as Deputy Managing Director (DMD) of UBA Ghana, subject to local regulatory approvals; Ayokunle Olajubu will be the Managing Director/CEO UBA Liberia, subject to local regulatory approvals. Theresa Henshaw, who was previously the DMD, Business Development, UBA America, was appointed as CEO of UBA UK, subject to local regulatory approvals. Usman Isiaka, who is currently CEO, UBA Sierra Leone, will be the Deputy CEO in UBA America, subject to local regulatory approvals. Meanwhile Adeyemi Adeleke, the former CEO of UBA, UK is now the Group Treasurer. Adeleke will be working to unlock the immense value in the Group’s multi-jurisdictional balance sheet, leveraging on its presence in 24 countries within and beyond Africa. In addition to the executive appointments, UBA has announced the retirement of High Chief Samuel Oni, an independent non-executive Director, from the Board following the expiration of his tenure. He joined the UBA Group in January 2015 and served on the Board of the Group for eight years. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[468,60],'dailytrust_com-leader-1','ezslot_3',183,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-leader-1-0');The Group Chairman expressed his appreciation to High Chief Oni, for his commitment, leadership and extensive contributions to the UBA Group. UBA is one of the largest employers in the financial sector on the African continent, with 25,000 employees group wide and serving over 37 million customers globally.