The presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has sparked heated controversy among Nigerians on social media after remarking that the prevailing fuel scarcity and the recent naira notes redesign by the Central Bank of Nigeria are efforts to sabotage the forthcoming general elections. The former Lagos Governor said that the attempts by some persons to sabotage his chances won’t stop his victory in the February 25 poll. Tinubu, who spoke on Wednesday during a rally at the MKO Abiola Stadium in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, said there is a plot by some saboteurs to stop the 2023 general elections from holding. He said fuel scarcity and the redesign of three naira notes won’t dissuade his supporters from voting him in. “Let fuel be expensive, only they know where they keep it. Keep petrol, keep the naira, we will vote and be elected. You may change the ink of naira notes. What you expect will not happen. We will win,” he said in Yoruba language. Social media users have since began heated conversations around the statements, with some saying that if so, then it’s the ruling party that’s trying to sabotage his chances in the elections. Taiwo Mayowa, a social media user, said, “Have said it before, the man you gave us has made everything impossible for you to get there Baba. Everything was not has this difficult during GEJ but your voice was on high frequency against him (GEJ). And now you are not being honest. Your BP will come to normal when you hear your president is Peter Obi is addressing Nigeria with message of love and unity.” Emmanuel Uriewhu said, “The new naira note was changed just to starve opposition parties not to get access to fund election, while the APC have loaded the new naira notes directly from CBN for election purposes. Shame to Buhari government.” Godfrey Obioma: “But they denied that they were not the problems of CBN Governor. So the CBN policy is a Sabotage to APC and TINUBU?” Patrick E.Ogah: “If actually he said all these statements at the campaign ground, there’s no doubt that the man is mentally sick.” Mukhtar Isah Saliki said, “What’s the difference between APC, Tinubu and Buhari? Are they not the same? Who’s sabotaging who?” Patrick Osijo said, “Nigerians wake up? It’s our future they’re playing with. Enough is Enough.” Wonders Ekpin said ”APC is in opposition with itself. It has always been at its best as opposition party. God forbid BAThing on Feb 25.” Oumar Mousa Othman said, “Bola Tinubu is a very pedestrian politician who can’t differentiate his audiences. He tells the same lies to everyone including his APC members. That’s why his campaign speeches are always falling flat on the face and won’t arouse anyone. Here is a man who is part of the present cabal that has subjected Nigerians to untold hardship and dehumanisation trying to be smart by passing the buck for incompetence and failure on others except himself.” Adewale Olusaye said, “Undoubtedly, CBN governor is working against Tinubu. He is fully backing south east agenda by frustrating APC government with anti people monetary policies to discredit APC government.” Umar Kabir said, “He has understood that the Presidency is really working against him. The earlier he realizes that AA is the President comes 25th Feb In shaa Allah, the better for him.