All eyes are on the 2022 auto industry coveted awards as the organisers, the Nigeria Auto Journalists Association (NAJA), have unveiled finalists for the awards scheduled for February 9. The NAJA Auto Awards holding at Oriental Hotel, Lagos, is an annual event that celebrates auto brands across the entire auto value chain in Nigeria. According to the awards committee, dozens of distinguished automotive journalists from different mediums selected the finalists based on their evaluation of each eligible vehicle as part of their professional work. The topmost category which is the Car-of-the-Year has prominent brands battling for the laurel. They include Suzuki S-Presso, GAC GS4 and Geely Coolray which will battle for the top prize to be presented on the night of the awards. Remo, Tornadoes remain unbeaten as Insurance stun Plateau United Israel ready to offer free heart surgery for Nigerian children Finalists for the 2022 awards in other categories have also been announced. In the Truck-of-the-Year category, Sino truck Dangote, Shacman – TSS and JAC from Lanre Shittu have been nominated. Innoson, Mikano and GAC will slug it out for the Assembly Plant-of-the-Year category. In the luxury car segment, Porsche, Mercedes and BMW models are the front runners. Elizade Autoland (JAC), Stallion Hyundai and CFAO will battle for the outstanding auto workshop honour. In the SUV category (compact), Kia Selto, Geely Coolray and GAC GS4 have been nominated. For Large SUV, Toyota Land Cruiser will lock horns with GAC GS8, BMW X7 and Range Rover (Autobiography). Toyota Hilux, Mitsubishi L200 and Ford Ranger will battle for the Pickup-Truck-of–the-Year award. Lanre Shittu (JAC truck), TSS (Shacman) and Dangote Sinotruck will also battle again for the truck plant of the year award. Giving insights into the nominees, Chairman of the 2022 Award Committee, Rasheed Bisiriyu, said all vehicles nominated in the various categories represent exceptional value and designs. He said, “We are using our respected, trusted platform to recognise and acknowledge best-performing brands in different segments and categories across the entire auto value chain.” According to him, the award event, which has now become a major industry show, celebrates and rewards automotive excellence. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-large-leaderboard-2','ezslot_3',153,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-large-leaderboard-2-0');He also revealed that the founder and CEO of ABC Transport, Frank Nneji, and Deputy Managing Director of CFAO Motors, Kunle Jaiyesimi, would be honoured with the Auto Personality of the Year in recognition of their immense contributions to the development of Nigeria’s auto industry. 