Four eminent Nigerians will today analyse the campaign promises of top contenders for the presidency in the 2023 general elections at the 20th Daily Trust Dialogue. The event which is billed to hold at the NAF Centre in Abuja is organised by the Media Trust Limited, owners of Daily Trust and Trust Television. In a statement, the Group Chief Executive Officer of Media Trust Limited, Mounir Gwarzo, said that the dialogue would lead to the experts proffering solutions and airing what they feel the next president of Nigeria should focus on to positively transform the country. Gwarzo disclosed that the four panelists selected for the 2023 edition of the dialogue with the theme, “Interrogating the 2023 Presidential Agenda,” were a member of the Board of the Centre for Democracy and Development, Mr Jibrin Ibrahim; a foremost entrepreneur and former Chairman of the Board of Directors of First Bank of Nigeria (FBN), Mrs Ibukunoluwa Awosika; a human capacity development specialist and scion of the Enahoro family, Dr Eugene Enahoro; and a lecturer in Analysis of Business Problems at the Lagos Business School, Dr Yetunde Anibaba. 38 herders killed in Nasarawa air raid 2-hour rainfall wreaks havoc in Ondo “The Archbishop Emeritus of the Catholic Church in Abuja, John Cardinal Onaiyekan, will preside over the 20th edition of the annual dialogue, which is to be moderated by Dr Suleiman Suleiman, the Deputy Editor-in-Chief and Chairman of the Editorial Board of the newspaper.” if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[250,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');The GCEO said that a veteran journalist and Sarkin Karshi, Abuja, Alhaji Ismaila Mohammed, MFR, would serve as the Royal Father at the event. He further stated that unlike in the past two years, the 2023 edition would have physical convergence with the removal of restrictions imposed during the COVID-19 pandemic. The GCEO said this year’s event would be broadcast live by Trust Television on StarTimes Channel 164; NigComSat’s Free TV; Moreplex 715; ArabSat Badr Sat7; AVO TV; and LIMEX World TV, as well as on YouTube and other social media platforms. “The annual Daily Trust Dialogue is part of Media Trust Limited’s contributions to stimulating discussions by Nigerians and fellow Africans towards enhancing national, and indeed, African integration and cohesion, which are crucial for sustainable socio-political growth and economic development of Nigeria, and the African Continent at large. “Since 2002, Media Trust has hosted the annual public lecture series to discuss topical issues on various aspects of governance. The series of Dialogues had been attended by past Heads of Government, the leadership of the National Assembly as well as captains of commerce and industry, aside from members of the diplomatic corps. “The Daily Trust Dialogue had equally been graced at different times by eminent personalities from across Africa. They include Mr Festus Mogae, former President of Botswana; late Flt. Lt. Jerry Rawlings, former President of Ghana; and Dr. Salim Ahmed Salim, former Prime Minister of Tanzania. Others are the late Mrs Winnie Mandela of South Africa’s anti-apartheid struggle; Dr. Mo Ibrahim; and Mrs. Samia Nkrumah, daughter of late Dr. Kwame Nkrumah,” he added. 