The Uyo-based team Dakkada FC has held a special thanksgiving ceremony with the subject “The Chosen Ones of God,” adapted from 1Corinthians 1:27–29, ahead of the start of the 2022–2023 Nigeria Professional Football League season. High-profile dignitaries attended the ceremony, which was conducted in the Apostolic Church in the Afaha Oku neighborhood on the Oku Village Road in Uyo. The senior pastor, pastor A. A. Okon, praised the team for trusting God with the next season in his sermon, “The Safety of Everything with God,” and provided scriptural proof that God wouldn’t let them down. He blessed them and prayed for them specifically. Speaking earlier, the Chairman of Dakkada, Coach Aniedi Dickson, said that the club’s decision to hold the thanksgiving service was borne out of the demonstration of God’s love, blessing and faithfulness towards them over the past few years. Dakkada who have been drawn into Group B will begin their campaign with a trip to Bayelsa United when the 2022/2023 NPFL gets underway this Sunday, January 8, 2023. In the same vein, Akwa United head coach, Deji Ayeni is confident with his team’s level of preparation ahead of the league kick-off. He made this known after his team’s goalless draw against defending champions, Rivers United in Uyo. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[250,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_1',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');“We played a series of matches anyway and the game wasn’t bad, it’s expected the way they played being defending champions,” Ayeni said of the tie. “If you watch very well, it’s a two-sided game with the presence of doggedness, resilience, determination and seriousness. So, I believe at least that with this, it’s going to be a positive response for us when the league starts properly next week by the grace of God.” “We are going to get it right, everything including all the mistakes, we will be able to correct it before the league kick-starts.” Similarly, Stanley Eguma, head coach of Rivers United is confident of his preparedness ahead of the league season kick-off as he also gives his take on the abridged format of the competition. Eguma made this known in his post match pressers following his team’s 0-0 friendly game against Akwa United in Uyo. “It was a very good game, very good test for both teams, for a long time, we’ve been yearning for the start of the league and what we saw today is reminiscent of what you will see in the league,” he said. 