The National Chairman of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Prof. Rufai Alkali, has urged security agencies in the country to go after anti-democratic forces trying to undermine the efforts of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct credible, free and fair elections. Alkali briefed the press at the party’s headquarters in Abuja on Wednesday, amid concerns that the general elections might be postponed or cancelled due to the spate of insecurity in the country. The national chairman said the elections should hold in every polling unit and council ward in the country, stressing that it is sacrosanct that on May 29, there should be a new government in place. He said, “May 29 is sacrosanct for a new government to take over.” We should know and ensure that whatever circumstances we may find ourselves in; there must be a new government on that day. But elections must hold before a new government will be formed that day.” Bayelsa launches court with electronic filing facilities New monitoring app to ensure timely delivery of govt projects He said INEC is a serious institution, and for its leadership to come out and say there are security threats to the conduct of the general elections, security agencies need to go after those who want to disrupt the elections. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');Alkali also accused the ruling party of causing tension in the polity by its readiness to do anything at all to win elections, adding that the call for the removal of INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, was part of efforts to disrupt the electoral process. He also called on the electoral umpire to “urgently comply with court orders expeditiously delivered by the courts as to further build up the confidence of the political parties and the general public in the commission’s unflinching and unwavering commitment to conducting free, fair and credible elections. 