Last week, Jurgen Klopp’s men were brought back to earth after a sting from the London bees. Newcastle held Arsenal and Graham seems to be failing his pottery class at West London. Here are the predictions for this week: Man United vs Man City, Saturday 1:30pm In this Manchester derby, many are of the opinion that City have not been at their best this season. Yes, they have lost only two league matches this season, drawing three but they look like a team not prepared to retain their title. It appears the complacency that hit their camp in the 19/20 season after winning the two previous editions has hit them again. They are more predictable with a dream striker like Erling Haaland who is having a physics-defying season. All the balls go in his direction and other City players don’t make enough runs in the box like they used to. Teams pick on that and City Struggle. So Pep must find a balance. For Ten Hag’s men, they are flying high with 8 wins in all competitions and 4 league clean sheets in a row. Marcus Rashford is in the perfect state of mind as his new celebration suggests and Casemiro is finally showing some class. Meanwhile, City recently lost their Carabao Cup game against bottom side Southampton (with no shot on target). They may go into this lacking confidence. Man United 2 – 1 Man City Brighton vs Liverpool, Saturday 4pm if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[250,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');The Seagulls have won 5 of their last 9 games in all competitions and beaten a top 6 twice out of their last three meetings. This is fair form. But one cannot deny the tactical organization of De Zerbi’s men. They might be referred to as a mid-table team but their performances are certainly not average. They attack teams head-on. Even in the 4-2 loss against the Gunners, they gave them a run for their money. Let’s not forget the memorable 3-3 draw at Anfield earlier in the Season. The Reds have looked inconsistent this campaign and continue to do so. One second they look like they’re back, then they make mistakes at the back. Nunez has had missed chances and injuries to key players with the latest being Van Dijk has cost them. The season is not just looking good for Jürgen Klopp. Brighton 2-2 Liverpool Chelsea vs Crystal Palace, Sunday 3pm This is a London derby of two inconsistent sides. For Palace, not so bad but for Potter, the pressure is getting worse. An injury list that can make a starting XI isn’t helping matters. Toothless attackers and the Blues faithful can’t stop lamenting. Hopefully, the addition of João Felix, David Fofana, and a progressive centre back in Benoît Badiashile can mend things a bit. But the blues need at least a creative midfielder this window and 2 more in the next one. For Palace, they haven’t been able to beat the blues at home since 2017 and have scored one goal in their last six games. Chelsea 2 – 0 Crystal Palace Tottenham vs Arsenal, Sunday 5:30pm The feisty North London derby is here again and it couldn’t have come at a better time for Arteta’s men. Despite the injury to key player, Gabriel Jesus, the Gunners have won all but one of their games whilst playing exciting football and have extended their lead on the table to five points. Eddie Nketiah’s form can only suggest that the opposition’s defence is in trouble. With 4 goals in 4 games for Nketiah, the boss will have a selection headache once Gabriel Jesus is back. The reintroduction of Emile Smith Rowe also gives him more options. Conte’s men have lost 2 of their last 5 and are not playing the best of football, only managing to beat league one side, Portsmouth 1-0 in their FA Cup tie last time out. Tottenham 1 – 3 Arsenal