Nigerian celebrity marriages have recently been a topic of enthusiastic conversations and controversies, especially in Nigerian cyberspace. In what many Nigerians have described as a shocking puzzle, a number of marriages involving some front-line entertainers crashed in the year 2022, which raises questions concerning celebrity marriages. A foremost Nigerian actress, Funke Akindele and her estranged husband, Abdulrasheed Bello fondly known as JJC Skillz called it quits after 6 years of marriage followed by Paul Okoye and Anita, as well as Basketmouth and Elsie, among others. There is also an unrelenting controversy that trails the marriage of actor Yul Edochie and his wife, May, since Yul married another wife, Judy Austin, last year. But while pessimism concerning celebrity marriages still lingers in the air, Daily Trust takes a look at some Nigerian entertainers whose marriages have so far withstood the test of time for having lasted for over a decade. Charly Boy & Dianne Oputa  Veteran entertainer, Charly Boy (Charles Oputa) and his wife Dianne Oputa are one of the celebrity couples who appear to defy all odds to remain for an inspiringly long time in marriage. Charly Boy once narrated that he had met his wife Dianne, an American, in 1974 in a hair salon in Boston, United States, where he had gone to make his hair. The 72-year-old also said like most marriages, his own also has its ups and downs, but they’re able to remain together for 45 years through the “hard work” they’ve put into it. In a newspaper interview last year, the ‘Area Fada’ said, “Some people are asking me how I have managed to stay in a marriage for 45 years. It is hard work. It is not that it has entirely been a sweet experience for me. My marriage is not perfect but we are a perfect match made in heaven.” Omotola Jalade Ekeinde & Captain Ekeinde  Omotola Jalade Ekeinde is one of Nollywood’s most celebrated stars who tied the knot with Matthew Ekeinde in 1996. The couple who have been married for 27 years have four children together. The Ekeinde family is considered one of the celebrity marriages that avoid controversies and social media attention. Omotola once commented about her marriage, “It would have been incredibly difficult if my spouse took things to heart, it would have been a rollercoaster.” Mercy Johnson & Prince Okojie  Actress, producer and television personality Mercy Johnson Okojie is a well-rounded star in Nollywood with several awards to her name. In 2011, the actress married her sweetheart, Prince Okojie and they have been together for over 12 years. The union has produced four children. Olu Jacobs and Joke Silva  Olu Jacob and Joke Silva are popular Nollywood actors who have been married for more than 30 years. They are also said to be among the old artistes of the mainstream Nigerian movie industry who contributed to its establishment. With a marriage lasting longer than 30 years, the duo are considered a prosperous celebrity couple. RMD and Jumobi Adegbesan  Richard Mofe Damijo, well known by his stage name RMD, wed Jumobi Adegbesan, a former presenter for Africa Independent Television (AIT), in 2000. Their marriage has lasted for over 22 years, and the couple’s love and stability seem to grow stronger by the day. The marriage has also produced two children. Omoni & Nnamdi Oboli  Omoni and Nnamdi Oboli are Nollywood veteran artistes who have been married for about 22 years. Nnamdi is also a movie producer who has co-produced blockbusters with his wife, Omoni. Their movies include, “Being Mrs Elliott” and “Render to Ceasar.” if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[468,60],'dailytrust_com-large-mobile-banner-1','ezslot_3',187,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-large-mobile-banner-1-0');Celebrating their 21st-anniversary last year, the actress took to her verified Instagram account to write: “Do you know what today is? It’s our anniversary. 21 years don waka. We still dey carry go, nobody waka, nobody go solo! Baba God na your grace. I love you Nnamdi today, more than the first day.” (sic) The 43-year-old filmmaker and her husband, 51, are blessed with three sons, Gozi, Chizi, and Tobe Oboli Norbert & Gloria Young  Top Nollywood actors Norbert and Gloria Young are considered pioneer actors in Nollywood. Norbert and Gloria Young have been married for about 17 years and have three children together. Chioma Chukwuka & Franklin Akpotha  Because of the types of roles she frequently plays in films, Chioma Chukwuka, a Nollywood actress, producer, and television personality is sometimes referred to as a “Nollywood virgin.” Chioma Chukwuka is married to Franklin Akpotha. They have been married for over 17 years.