Recently, a famous TikToker, Murja Ibrahim Kunya, was arrested by the Kano Police Command on allegations of abuse, obscenity and social media misconduct. The 24 years old woman, who is about to be arraigned before the court, made a promise to stop insults on social media. When answering the questions of the spokesman of the police about her activities on Social Media which are condemned by the people, Murja said, “Every sane person knows when he does something wrong.” But on allegations of her misbehaving on social media, she did, “First of all, I don’t sing, let alone to say that children can listen to my music to ruin their morals.” 2 Tiktokers bag 20 lashes, to clean court’s toilets for posting ‘Ganduje sleeps a lot’ 2023: Stop hate speech, Yiaga Africa tells candidates, parties She said, “I am not a woman who uploads obscene songs. Honestly, I didn’t know that the song ‘Cas’ by Ado Gwanja was against the law because the way I saw people using the song (on Tiktok) made me join the song.” Murja went on to say that she first came across Ado Gwanja’s song ‘War’ on social media and that thousands of people had posted the song before her. The two songs (Cas and War) have caused a lot of controversies, until the Federal Government, through the NBC, banned them from being broadcast on radio and television. It was on the basis of the songs that some lawyers who are passionate about Kano state accused Ado Gwanja in court on the charge of corrupting morals. However, Murja explained the reasons why she rains insults in the video she posts on social media. She said, “The truth about the insults that I did, it was an insult that I did even before I was asked in this court and the case filed by the Kano clerics. My first insult was because of an incident. There was an incident where I saw a video of some women and their children who were abducted. At that time, we begged God to help in the matter, then things got more complicated. I saw a woman and children being beaten with a whip in the bush, which made me lose my mind and shout, I lost what I was comfortable with, I lost my ‘control’ I came out and made that insult. “The second insult is that the person who took my photo said that I died. This is why I was called on the phone and told that someone posted on social media when I first started Tiktok, he posted that we had an accident on the way back from Kaduna. Our father was told that we had an accident and he died. Our father fell. I lost my ‘control’ and I also came out and cursed whoever did that. From these two insults that I have done, I promised my father, God willing, that I will not insult anyone.” Regarding her level of religious and western education, Murja said, “I recited the holy Quran and as for western education, I didn’t finish secondary school and I quit.”