The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has denied a claim by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that he has stockpiled new naira notes ahead of the February 25, polls. The PDP had asked Tinubu and other leaders of the APC, including governors who are members of the ruling party, to release billions of new naira notes allegedly in their custody meant to buy votes. But reacting yesterday, Tinubu in a statement signed by Mahmud Jega, the Special Adviser, Media and Public Affairs of his campaign council, described the allegation as ludicrous and spurious. The statement reads in part: “We want to assure Nigerians that claim is utterly false. Our candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, being always the voice of the voiceless and champion of the underprivileged, at numerous rallies and campaign stops, identified with our people and boldly called on CBN to extend the deadline and end the public suffering.” UNICEF, Kashere varsity counter fake news UNICEF, Kashere varsity counter fake news ‘Let’s unite to build a better Nigeria’ Meanwhile, Tinubu has urged Nigerians to unite to surmount the avalanche of challenges bedevilling the country. He spoke on Sunday night in Abuja during a “Meet the Mentor Dinner” organised in his honour by the Progressive Sisters Network (PSN), a pro-Tinubu support group. Tinubu, a former Governor of Lagos State, said, “As a nation, we are facing some challenges, but we can overcome these challenges. We can find our ways in situations where it seems there is no way. Please let’s work together to build the Nigeria of our dreams together.” Similarly, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has said Tinubu was proposing a blueprint that would uplift and resolve the challenges facing the Fulani in the country. Ganduje spoke on Sunday night when Fulani leaders under the aegis of the Arewa New Agenda and Fulbe United for Peace Development endorsed Tinubu at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. The governor, who described the Fulani as endangered species, said they deserved to be treated better and protected in the years ahead.