The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the All Progressives Congress (APC), and the Labour Party (LP), on Thursday, reeled out their security plans to Nigerians ahead of the Feb. 25, Presidential Election. The parties disclosed the plans at the “Youth Presidential Debate” organised by Atiku Youth World Outreach, which was held in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the debate was tagged “Beyond Politics: For Love of Country”. Mr Onoja Ilemona, who spoke on behalf of the Presidential candidate of the PDP, former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, said that if elected, the party would tackle the insecurity that had continued to bedevil the country. Ilemona said: “Our candidate has a five-step plan to improve the security of Nigeria. These plans include increasing the number of our gallant men and women because they are insufficient currently. “We will improve inter-agency cohesion, combat the free flow of light weapons and ammunition, and ensure better funding of security agencies.” Ilemona further called on the electorate to vote for Atiku who he described as a man who would emancipate Nigeria from poverty. “Atiku is the only candidate who has been involved in wealth creation, wealth generation and job creation at the national level,” he declared. He said that the administration would grow the economy by improving private sector participation in business. “The Nigerian economy has been stagnant over the course of time because there is not enough private sector participation. “Government has no business in business. Leave the business to private sector participants. “This will curb government waste and create private sector creativity and ingenuity in business.” For Mr Olufemi Ibitoye, spokesperson for the Presidential Candidate of the APC, Sen. Bola Tinubu, the administration would deploy the use of effective technology in securing the country. “Information is key in fighting insecurity,” Ibitoye said. He also said that the party would ensure that the National Assembly amended the Criminal Justice System Act, to tackle cases of injustice. According to Ibitoye, Tinubu is the best candidate for the country, adding that; “we cannot leave Nigeria to someone who has got no experience at the high level. “Tinubu is someone who will get the job done. He has done it before, and he will do it again. He is the architect of modern Lagos. He will build the economic bridge of Nigeria,” he said. LP representative, Mr Ogbeide Ifaluyi-Isibor, said that failure of leadership was the cause of insecurity in the country. To that effect, he said that a sustainable way of fighting insecurity was ending poverty. “Peter Obi will bring fair leadership where everybody will feel loved. This is what is needed to solve insecurity. “Our candidate, Obi, will ensure that the youths are employed which will reduce the high rate of poverty.” He also said that the LP would work towards better remuneration for the police. Earlier, the Patron of Atiku Youth World Outreach, Maryam Atiku, had said that the debate was organised to bring youths from different parties to exchange ideas towards a better future for Nigeria. “This is the first time such a forum is organised, where young persons come together to say no to violence by the political parties. That what the country needs is peace.” Also speaking, the Director-General, Media and Strategic Planning of the Outreach, Mr Freedom Atsepoyi, said the aim of the outreach was to chart a new course for Nigerian politics. (NAN)