The Technical Adviser of Doma United, Akinade Onigbinde, has said even as the ‘Savannah Tigers’ are debutants in the 2023 abridged Nigeria Premier Football League (NPFL), their target is to qualify for Super 6 where they would fight to pick one of the tickets to represent Nigeria in the continent. In this interview with Trust Sports, the former Road Safety FC Abuja gaffer spoke on the performance of Doma United in the ongoing NPFL season, the unwavering support from the proprietor of the club and the heart-warming performances of Bendel Insurance in Group A.  How satisfied are you with the performance of your boys considering that this is Doma United’s first appearance in the NPFL? I am satisfied with the performance of my boys. As you are aware, this is our first season in the topflight but they have not shown any signs of stage fright. Another thing is that they are eager and willing to learn new things. So, we are a work in progress. The secret of our success so far is that the boys are willing to learn. You won your last match 2-1 against defending champions, Rivers United. How significant is the victory to Doma United? It was a wonderful performance from the boys and I really appreciate God for giving us the victory. However, it didn’t come to us on a platter of gold. We worked for it. After we took our time to review some of the recent matches of Rivers United, we sat back to strategise. They have imposing players who play physical football so we had to find an antidote to their style of play. Before the match, were you sure Doma United would come out on top against Rivers United? To be honest with you, we have never gone into any match with anything other than victory on our mind. So, our match against Rivers United wasn’t an exception. We knew very well that they would give us a run for our money but we were prepared for them. We also knew they would come hard at us but we planned to stay calm and absorb the pressure. We waited patiently to catch them on the counter and that was how we were able to tame them. After your opening day 1-1 draw at home with Sunshine Stars, what did you do to psyche up your players? That wasn’t the result we wanted but it happened that way so we had to reset quickly. I am not blaming him for the draw but our goalkeeper made a mistake which resulted in that goal. However, we told ourselves that we can still do it. There was no need to continue to cry over spilled milk. I told my players to put the match behind them. And since then, we have not looked back. Even our last victory over Rivers United is a thing of the past. Our focus now is on our next match against Enugu Rangers in Awka. Honestly, we don’t dwell too much on any match that we have played. Out of the matches Doma United have played so far, which of them would you say was the toughest? Without doubt, I will say the North-West derby with Wikki Tourists in Bauchi was our toughest match. They were desperate for points. They had not won a single match so they came all out for the maximum points. However, we kept to our game plan and it worked for us. It was not an easy match. Would you say that was the best performance for Doma United? No, I will say our best match for now was in Yenagoa against Bayelsa United. You know we were promoted at the same time so we are familiar with each other. It was an interesting match. We took the lead and tried to hold on to it but they fought back gallantly to equalise for the match to end in a 1-1 draw. Playing away from home is not so easy so we had to put in everything to get that vital point. Both teams played beautiful football. Do you have any target for Doma United in this abridged season? I am sure the target of every team that is competing in the league is to first qualify for Super 6 and then fight for the title or at least a continental ticket. Our case is not different. We are also working towards qualifying for the Super 6. But as a newly promoted club, don’t you think it will be more realistic to target retaining your position in the NPFL? if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-leader-1','ezslot_4',183,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-leader-1-0');Well, we are an ambitious club and I believe we have every right to aspire to play continental football in our first season in the NPFL. We are working hard to qualify for the Super 6 but if it happens that we finish in the middle of the table so be it. Super 6 is our target and we are not resting on our oars Doma United’s home matches usually attract huge crowds. How much is the club enjoying the support of its darling fans? The supporters are amazing. They are so proud of the team. Anytime we are playing at home, they fill up the Pantami stadium to give us the necessary support. They are so passionate about the team. And another thing I like so much about our supporters is that they have imbibed the spirit of sportsmanship. Even when we are yet to score, they keep cheering for the boys to put in their best. As one of the two privately owned clubs in the 2023 NPFL season, how much motivation are players and officials of Doma United getting from the founder of the club? Our proprietor is really trying his best. Sponsoring a football club, especially in the NPFL is capital intensive but he is doing his best. Immediately we end our match, we are paid our bonus. Whether we win or draw, we are paid immediately. The players are highly motivated to put in their best. As a matter of fact, we are paid our salaries and allowances as and when due. In terms of welfare, Doma United is better than some of the government sponsored clubs in the NPFL. Doma United were promoted along with three other clubs, Bendel Insurance, Bayelsa United and El-Kanemi Warriors. Which of them has impressed you the most in the ongoing season? It is Bendel Insurance. We played against them in the NNL Super 4 in Yenagoa and they were so good. We took the lead against them but they equalised and went on to score the winning goal in the dying minutes of the match. They have very good players who have been playing together for a very long time. I am not surprised that they are on top of Group A. With the support of their government, they will go far.