Tosin Tope, Akure. Ahead of the weekend presidential election, a former Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the South West, and Zonal Liaison Officer, Mr Eddy Olafeso, on Wednesday, said his party  would see to the end of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Mr Olafeso, who spoke to reporters in Akure, the state capital, over the chances of the PDP, especially in Saturday’s poll, said the opposition party has worked hard enough to defeat the APC and take back power from the ruling party. “We must dislodge APC in this country. The party is unknown to modern politics. APC has done enough for us to bury them and I know for sure they will be buried on Saturday. Our country must be united, we are going to do very well in the South-West. “So having gone through all the faces, it is for us to consulate, consolidate and work for our candidate, we will work so hard to defeat APC come February 25th presidential election in this country,” the PDP Chieftain said. He added that the people of the country could not afford another chance with the “current hardship” brought on them by the APC but rather to boot out the ruling party in Saturday’s poll. According to him, many Nigerians have become poorer since the APC government led by President Muhammadu Buhari take over power in the country. Mr Olafeso noted that Mr Atiku Abubakar who is the presidential candidate of the PDP would defeat Mr Tinubu in the big contest on February 25, following his campaign manifestos and promises to the people if emerged. He also took a swipe on Peter Obi, candidate of the Labour Party (LP), noting that his chances in the weekend presidential election do not affect the chances of Mr Atiku. “I found it very interesting that he (Obi) has been able to come this far and what we are clamouring is that may the best candidate wins come Saturday.” “Politics requires a lot of structure, people, money, and others. Our party contributes money from the units to the states, now who does that for Labour Party? And by Saturday we will know who owns the land. It is not about social media opinion poll,” Mr Olafeso noted, saying “So, his ambition will not affect the vote of Atiku at all.” Speaking on the internal wranglings in the PDP and how it could affect the chances of the party, Mr Olafeso, lamented the stand of the Integrity Group (G-5), led by Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State. He noted that it would have been better if all the aggrieved governors had been on the same page with the presidential candidate of the party, Mr Atiku. “But it is never late to retrace their journey. It is the same thing they promoted they are rejecting now but tomorrow belongs to God. “I think there must be a law of karma behind the G-5, these people started disrespecting the constitution of the party because they brought in Ayu in the last convention and suddenly they want him out. “The question is are they fair with this? The mindlessness of their quest will end in total disaster for them. “Atiku is a financial member of the PDP, he made everything possible that the party captures entire Nigeria and he is a founding father of the part,” he said.