By Muazu Muazu The North is chronically sick if not terminally. Every day is political thuggery – kidnapping – banditry – violence – insurgency – corruption – armed robbery – pen robbery – exploding of bombs – wanton and extrajudicial killing – freaky happening – cultism – bizarre – deception and a lot of atrocities all over the region. We, the people of the Northern Nigeria are being harmed because of procrastination – lackadaisical attitude and lack of jealousy of ourselves – our people and our region. Until now, we do not consider the southern part superior to us in education. We deceive ourselves into thinking we have the knowledge, after we have been passed and we have been made, the distance up and down. We are indeed far away. But we still do not understand, we claim everything from us is out. But that is not the case. Religion remains as it is. Global development and education also exist as their own and their environment. Religion and development are two things that are different and very similar, but each one is independent. NatureNews publisher calls for biennial COP on climate change News FCT Muslim pilgrims’ board director assumes duty Knowledge of history, philosophy, anthropology, sociology, psychology, ethics, and more in many fields of life, we are far from it. On their distance not near. That is why we are here today. The people of the South believed in knowledge, they believed that history was the source of knowledge. Because even if you study religion at last you will find that history is your lamp. Knowledge of history is essential in the development of life. It suffice to say that no human being has a complete history in his hand in relation to the storage life. We have a shortage of historians due to the shortage of language and literature teachers. And the people we have are not doing their job properly. We do not look at things the way they are, we always assume that we have understood and reached the pinnacle of our understanding of the future of the world, but that is not the case. The truth of the matter is that we do not understand, and we do not understand. The reason for this is because of the way we live our life as sailors and where we stand. The constitution allows us to express our views but we have failed to use them in the right way. We are constantly criticising and criticising each other and seeing the effects of our influence in the media, through political puppets, in the name of taking advantage of this opportunity to speak out. There are so many things we need to stop looking at and pass on. Because now there is so much civilisation and education in the world we live in. The only thing left for our fairytale to do is to tell us that our civilisation is limited to our cities, and we do not look at other parts of the world and their civilisation, so that we can learn from them as they lead by example. After all, why should we always wait for others to come up with a solution and then imitate it? Can we not invent what others can imitate from us? Where are our scientists? Where are the historians and other scholars? Of course we are in a great confusion, the darkness of all darkness. It was as if this kind of donkey taught his cousin donkey. The body also says it understands, even though it has nothing to do with teaching. He who knows himself – knows his Lord, and he who does not know himself, certainly does not know his Lord. Unfortunately, we have not been able to follow the right path for the development of our northern region, we have no jobs and no job creation all the time except chaos and nonsense, many of our young people have become intoxicated, they cannot curse themselves at all. The people of the region and the country are a good thing, and the elders and elite are safe and sound, if I throw a stone at my mother, everyone will fall. We do not understand, we do not know we do not understand. See how the Kano State Hisbah Commission views ‘Black Friday’. In a widely syndicated letter – Hisbah board  addressed ‘The Menger’ instead of the manager – and “Letter of Notofication’ instead of letter of notification warning Cool FM for calling Friday ‘Black Friday’.  Is ‘Black Friday’ the only thing Hisbah views or blames for? To do not know is really not do, to know not do is also really not know. This tells a lot of the quality of people who are given certain responsibilities in our country. It is also a demonstration of lack of capacity to write an ordinary letter. The people in power are one-sided in a blind town. No matter how poor our progress is, we have forgotten that we are the ones who will stand up for our own progress. It is too late to wait for others to plan our lives, doing so as if we are destroying ourselves. We were stabbed in the stomach with our hands. Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, two years ago met with the President Muhammad Buhari and handed him a copy of a map of the reconstruction of Lagos State, following the destruction of some areas by protestants during the ‘#EndSARS’ protest. Where are the northern governors who have had problems with insurgency, banditry and kidnapping in their states? We sit idly by and some of the people we consider to be the most civilised and educated have done something and then we will get up and say yes, and we will do the same, while following the path they have followed. Concluded on www.dailytrust.com  Mu’azu is with the Freedom Radio, Kano 