Last Saturday’s National Assembly elections have thrown up some shocks as some political bigwigs across the various political parties in the country have been defeated, according to the results announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) so far. Some members of the House of Representatives lost their return bids while others made it. But the scintillating aspect of the outcomes of the polls is how the various parties will stand in the 10th National Assembly after the official declaration of results by INEC. Though all the results of the House of Representatives elections have not yet been announced, this paper chronicles the winners so far declared by INEC. The All Progressives Congress (APC) is leading as it has already won 40 seats; the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) follows with 12 constituencies; the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Labour Party (LP) have 14 and 4 constituencies respectively. In Kano State, APC’s Alhassan Ado Doguwa has won Doguwa/Tudunwada Federal Consrirurency; Hamisu Chidari won Dambatta/Makoda; Sani Bala won Kunchi/Tsanyawa; and Kabir Abubakar won Bichi. The NNPP won Minjibir/Ungogo Federal Constituency in Kano, with its candidate, Adamu Sani, emerging winner; Kiru Bebeji, with its candidate, abdulmumin Jibrin; and Abdulkadir Tijjani Jobe won Tofa/DawakinTofa/RiminGado constituency. The NNPP didn’t stop at that, as its candidate, Alhassan Kabir Rurum, won Rano/Kibiya/Bunkure constituency, with Garba Diso winning Gwale. Similarly, Idris Dankawu of the NNPP won Kumbotso Federal Constituency of Kano State, Yusuf Datti Kura won Kura/Madobi/Garun Malam; while Barrister M. D. Muh’d Hassan defeated candidates of other parties in Dawakin Kudu/Warawa Federal Constituency of the state. In the same vein in Kano, Mukhtar Yarima of the NNPP won Tarauni, Hassan Hussain also of the NNPP won Nassarawa, while Sani Adamu Wakili and Idris Chiroma won Minjibir/Ungogo and Gezawa/Gabasawa Federal Constituencies respectively. In Niger State, Joshua Audu Gana, son of a former Minister of Information and National Orientation, Prof Jerry Gana, won Mokwa/Lavun/Edati Federal Constituency on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); Abubakar Abdul Buba of the PDP won Chanchaga Federal Constituency; while Adamu Tanko also of the PDP won Lokoja Suleja/Tafa/Gurara Federal Constituency. But in a dramatic twist, Saidu Musa Abdul of the APC won Bida/Gbako/Katcha Federal Constituency in Niger State; Abdullahi Idris Garba also defeated other contenders to emerge winner of Kontagora/ Mariga/Mashegu/Wushishi/ Federal Constituency on APC’s platform. Also, Yusuf Kure Baraje of the APC won Bosso/Paikoro Federal Constituency; Ja’afaru Mohammed won Agwara/ Borgu Federal Constituency; Mahmud Abdullahi defeated other candidates to clinch Agaie/Lapai Federal Constituency, all in Niger State. Also, Ismail Musa Modibbo of the APC won Rafi/Shiroro/Munya Federal Constituency; while Abdullahi Shehu won Magama/Rijau Federal Constituency of Niger State. In the FCT, candidate of the APC, Alhaji Abdulrahman Aliya, has defeated other candidates in Abuja South to clinch the constituency’s seat. In Lagos State, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila of the APC, won Surulere 2 Federal Constituency. Also, a Member of the House of Representstives, James Faleke, was announced winner of Ikeja Federal Constituency of Lagos on the APC platform; Wale Ahmed won Agege Federal Constituency; while Babajimi Benson was declared winner of Ikorodu Federal Constituency, all of the APC. Another candidate of the APC, Prince Sesi Whingah, equally won Badagry Federal Constituency of Lagos State. In Ogun State, INEC has declared candidate of the APC, Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, as winner of Egbado North/Imeko-Afon Federal Constituency; Adegbesan Joseph the winner of IIjebuNorth/Ijebu East/Ogun Waterside Federal Constituency on the platform of the APC. In Abia State, INEC declared Hon Ginger Onwusibe of the Labour Party (LP) as winner of langwa North and South Federal Constituency, while Benjamin Kalu of the APC was announced winner of Bende Federal Constituency. In Kaduna, Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s son, Mohammed Bello El-Rufai of the APC was declared the winmer of Kaduna North Local Government Area of the state. The Returning Officer, Prof. Muhammad Magaji Garba announced that El-Rufai polled 51,052 votes to defeat the incumbent member, Suleiman Samaila Abdu of the PDP who polled 34,808. Mathew Donatus of the Labour Party (LP) defeated other contestants to emerge winner of the election in Kozalia Kaura Federal Constituency in the state. In Bauchi State, PDP’s Mansur Soro was declared winner for Darazo/Ganjuwa Federal Constituency, while Sama’ila Dabo of the APC won Toro Federal Constituency of the state. APC’s candidate, Leko Gambo, won Tafawa Balewa/Dass/Bogoro Federal Constituency; while Adamu Hashimi of the PDP won Ningi/Warji Federal Constituency of Bauchi State. In Plateau State, the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Idris-Wase of the APC, was declared winner of Wase Federal Constituency; while Beni Lar of the PDP was declared winner of Langtang North/Langtang South Constituency. In Kwara, Yinka Alukoo of the APC won Ilorin East/Ilorin South Federal Constituency. In Benue State, Solomon Wombo of the APC won Ukum/Logo Federal Constituency. The party also won Guma/Makurdi Federal Constituency as its candidate, Tarkghir Dicson, was declared winner. Terseer Ugbo of the APC also won Kwande/Ushongo Federal Constituency; Blessing Onuh, Otukpo/Ohimini; Regina Akume, Gboko/Tarka; David Ogewu, Oju/Obi; Phillip Agbese, Ado/Okpokwu/Ogbadibo; Arc Achado Asema Gwer West/Gwer East and Sekap Iorfyrom, Buruku, all won on the APC platform in Benue State. In Anambra State, Maureen Chinwe of APGA, won the Gwacham Oyi/ Ayamelum Federal Constituency, while Ikot Ekpene/Essien Udim/ Obot Akara Federal Constituency was.won by APC’s  Dr Patrick Umoh in Akwa Ibom State. The minority leader of the House of Representatives, Mr Ndudi Elumelu has lost his seat to the Labour Party (LP) candidate. Elumelu, the lawmaker representing Aniocha/Oshimili Federal Constituency at the lower chamber was defeated by Ngozi Okolie, candidate of the LP. Declaring the result on Monday at the INEC collation center in Oshimili South Local Government Area, the Returning Officer, Prof. Kenneth Abaribe declared the LP candidate, Ngozi Okolie as the winner of the election. Similarly, the PDP has lost to the LP candidate in Enugu State. Chidi Obetta was declared the winner of the Nsukka/Igbo-Eze south Federal Constituency election in Enugu State. Romanus Eze, the Returning Officer, announced the result for Nsukka/Igbo-Eze on Sunday at the commission’s office in Nsukka. Eze said Obetta polled a total of 50,881 votes to defeat Vita Abba of the PDP, who polled 19,347 votes. Obetta was an aspirant for the seat on the PDP platform in May 2022, before he defected to the LP. Also, INEC has announced the results for Saturday’s National Assembly elections in some of the Federal Constituencies of Delta State. The results, announced at the various collation centers, includes Hon Nnamdi Ezechi of the PDP who was declared winner of the election in Ndokwa/Ukwuani Federal Constituency. The daughter of a former governor of Delta State, Hon Erhiatake Ibori, also won her Constituency on PDP’s platform. Hon Erhiatake Ibori won in the Ethiope Federal Constituency, while a former Commissioner for Energy in the state,  Jonathan Ukodhiko, won in the Isoko Federal Constituency. Meanwhile, more results are being expected from INEC.  By Saawua Terzungwe, Balarabe Alkasim, Abubakar Sadiq Isah (Abuja), Clement A. Oloyede (Kano), Hassan Ibrahim (Bauchi), Mumini Abdulkareem (Ilorin), Abubakar Akote (Minna), Ado Abubakar Musa (Jos), Hope Abah Emmanuel (Makurdi), Mohammed Ibrahim Yaba (Kaduna) & Meluwa Kelvin (Asaba)