The federal government has lauded the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) for its positive workforce reforms and its schemes to increase renewable energy access nationwide. The Minister of State for Power, Mr Goddy Jedy-Agba, who stated this on Thursday at the REA management retreat and town hall meeting in Abuja, said; “Tasked with such a critical mandate, there is a need to strengthen the pillars of service delivery continuously. Accordingly, the Agency is undertaking a series of reforms to enhance the workforce, improve the institutional systems, and pursue innovative programming strategies. “This administration’s efforts to improve energy access through on – and off-grid electrification solutions are commendable. We must not lose sight of Vision 30:30:30, aimed at raising the generation capacity to 30,000 megawatts (MW) by 2030, of which 30% will be from renewable sources.” He tasked REA officials on early planning towards achieving key milestones later in the year. The acting Chairman of the REA Board, Mohammed Badamasi, said the retreat is to do a lot especially in planning how to increase rural electrification, adding that, “The REA is one agency that is in a hurry to make an impact in the Nigeria economy.” Earlier, the Managing Director/CEO of REA, Ahmad Salihijo, said between 2009 and 2012, the agency was shut down and not operating, adding that the operators had failed to discuss the core aim of the agency after it began operation, but that the retreat addressed that. The ED, Corporate Services at REA, Olaniyi Netufo, who gave the scorecards of the agency in 2022, said over 24,000 households were connected through 51 projects of 4,025 kilowatts peak capacity. REA also delivered 494 projects comprising 151 grid power projects, 299 solar street lights, 29 solar mini-grids and 15 solar projects. It also installed 1.2 million solar home systems and 67 mini grids of 52mw capacity during the period. An official of a beneficiary of REA’s programmes, Nayo Tropical, presented farm produce enabled through its connection to REA-built mini-grid in Kebbi State. On the side-lines, the Managing Director, Kaduna Electric, Engr. Yusuf Usman Yahaya, lauded the collaboration while noting that the DisCo was working with REA on providing mini grid solutions to places that are off the grid and would take time and investments to reach. By Simon Echewofun Sunday & Linda Ifeachor