The Kano State Police Command has cancelled all political rallies in the state following clashes between supporters of the ruling All Progressive Congress and New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). The ruling APC and the leading opposition NNPP had planned for their grand finale on Thursday ahead of Saturday presidential and national assembly elections. But supporters of both parties engaged in a fierce battle. The police authorities had invited the leadership of the trio of APC, PDP and NNPP for an emergency meeting where they were cautioned of possible security threats in the state. Cash crunch is election rigging &#8211; Gbajabiamila Elections: Over N500bn old naira notes not yet returned to CBN &#8211; Bawa A source in the security circle revealed that representatives of APC and NNPP rejected the advice, but the police stood their ground. Confirming the rally cancellation in a statement, DCP Muhammed said, “You recall that (three) political parties via APC, NNPP, and PDP informed the command of their rallies scheduled for Thursday, February 23, 2023, within Kano metropolis. “In view of the precarious security situation in the state and the country in general, the commissioner of Police summoned the representatives of the three political parties to an emergency meeting to find a solution to the impasse. “It is therefore advice that all political parties postpone the planned presidential/national assembly rallies to a later date after the February 25 elections,” . Earlier, unidentified hoodlums attacked supporters of NNPP along Zaria road and set several vehicles ablaze. The supporters were on their way to Kwanar Dangora to welcome Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, presidential candidate of the NNPP and former governor of the state, who was concluding his campaign rally. Leaders of the APC had told our correspondent that the party intended to commence its rally at Club road while the NNPP intended to start its at Kwanar Dangora and proceed to Kwankwaso’s residence at Miller Road which is off Club road. Daily Trust reports that thugs wielding various dangerous weapons have been moving around freely in the city since Monday, leaving behind several victims. Many of the residents spoken to said they fear a repeat of the 2019 election violence which left several people killed or injured while property worth millions of Naira were destroyed.