Lecturers at the Gombe State University (GSU) have decried the non-payment of accumulated Earned Academic Allowance (EAA), promotion allowances and upward review of salaries among others. The Chairman of the GSU branch of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Dr Suleiman Salihu Jauro disclosed this yesterday while addressing newsmen in Gombe. He said the academic staff were not paid EAA allowances accumulated in the university for five academic sessions, covering from 2015/2016 session to the 2019/2020 session. Dr Jauro decried that implementation of promotion for staff as well as promoting of staff as at when due, has become a luxury at the university since 2020. Group hosts medical outreach, distributes food items in FCT Nasarawa College’s 43 years of open defecation ends with water cistern toilets “Arrears of promotions covering about 13 months is yet to be paid; the 2021 promotion has not been implemented, while the 2022 promotions though long overdue remained uncompleted largely due to non-availability of funds,” he complained. The chairman, therefore, called on the state government to increase the monthly subvention received by the university to at least N250 million from the present N200 million, “to enable the institution seamlessly honour its obligations of payment of salaries and overhead expenses.” “In view of the above facts, ASUU-GSU hereby request that the state ggovernment address these issues to boost morale of both academic and non-academic staff in the university to have a stable industrial atmosphere.” Jauro also announced that following the release of its two months salaries withheld by the institution, ASUU members after a congress meeting have resolved to mark the 2021/2022 first semester results and continue supervision of students’ projects. Daily Trust, reports that the management of GSU had implemented a ‘No work, No Pay’ policy by withholding salaries of August and September 2022, to compel the lecturers to return to classrooms. In response, the ASUU member at the GSU boycotted marking of results and supervising final year students’ projects. Responding, Vice Chancellor of the institution, Professor Aliyu Usman El-Nafaty, said the university council is aware of the issues and has met with the visitor, Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, to address the matter. He said the visitor has started to address some of the issues, with the unconditional payment of two months salary of the academic staff. 