To drive human capital development in the power sector, Egbin Power Plc has inducted 27 young Engineers after successfully completing the company’s Graduate Engineering Programme. The 2022 graduates are the third batch of Egbin Power’s engineering trainee programme. The 12-month comprehensive developmental programme, run in collaboration with Energy Training Centre (ETC), is an immersive and experiential learning experience for selected young engineers, focusing on processes, procedures, and operations of the Nigerian Electricity Supply industry. It involved a blend of learning approaches; instructor-led classroom sessions, virtual sessions, and field practical sessions to ensure effective learning transfer as well as improve their capacity and practical field experience. Mobile app launched to combat fake news UNICEF, Kashere varsity counter fake news Group Managing Director of Sahara Power Group, Kola Adesina, explained that the programme is a critical intervention in building the capacity of technical manpower with requisite skills for infrastructural and human capital development of the power sector. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[580,400],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_5',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');He noted that investment in new technology, expansion initiatives and innovative achievements at Egbin Power Plc requires a corresponding human capital profile to ensure optimal performance and profitability of the plant. On his part, the Chief Executive Officer of Egbin Power Plc, Mokhtar Bounour noted that investment in people is the key to success in any organization. He stressed the commitment of the company to provide all the support the young Engineers require to make a difference. He also tasked them to ensure that they always push the limits and always remain innovative. The facilitator of the programme and Managing Director of Energy Training Centre (ETC), Ibiene Okeleke, said the learning academy gave the trainees access to top-notch learning facilities and curriculum delivered by a faculty of subject matter experts.