 Rector/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of International Aviation College (IAC), Ilorin, Capt. Yakubu Okatahi has made a strong appeal to the Federal Government to consider the college for waiver on customs duty on the importation of aircraft and spares. Daily Trust reports that IAC Ilorin was established in 2011 by the Kwara State Government for the training of pilots and other aviation professionals. Since its establishment, it has churned out over 300 pilots, the majority of whom fly with local and international airlines. In an interview with Aviation Correspondents who were in Ilorin for a one-week course, the Rector in making an appeal for interventions especially a waiver on the importation of aircraft and their spares which was recently granted domestic airlines noted that the college has been training Nigerians and so they deserve some form of interventions to augment what the state government is doing. He noted that currently, facilities within the college need upgrade, with at least, three unserviceable trainer aircraft that would cost about N4.5 million to fix. He said, “The state government is trying its best, it is proactive and is keen on developing the school, salaries are paid as and when due, the state government released money for aircraft and parts purchase, fuel and upgrade of the college but it will be very good for the federal government to help us, the waiver on spare parts should be extended to us, they should give us subvention yearly because we are training Nigerians.” He however disclosed that the college would soon introduce Engineering and Cabin Crew courses in the new session to shore up its revenue even as it plans to increase the school fees from N12.5 million to over N17 million for a full course. Okatahi added, “Yes, we need partners and investors, we need more funding, we source our forex from the third tier market (black market), it’s been very expensive, all expenses here are based on the dollar, therefore, it is reasonable for us to increase the fees. “Each student pays N12.5 million for a full course but we could go higher than N17.5 million. If colleges like the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) that get government subvention from various sources can increase fees to over N17 million, ours may be higher because we don’t get any assistance from the Federal government. “In South Africa, it is about N28 million, excluding feeding and accommodation and in the United States, it is about $40,000.”