The Presidential Candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Gregory Obi, and his running mate, Dr. Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed yesterday tasked Nigerians to hold them responsible for a new Nigeria they all desired. They made the call at the Labour Party Mega Rally on Thursday in Abuja. Obi who said that the party would not give excuses but would create employment, end insecurity and establish a better Nigeria, said that he would revolutionise governance and run an all-inclusive regime carrying along all, including women, youths and persons with disabilities (PWDs). “Nigeria in the past 20 years has produced insecurity; produced poverty and unemployment. We are offering you security and prosperity. We are going to fight insecurity. We will start with an agrarian revolution, which will reduce the price of food, inflation will come down, and then we will push it to industry, as they are manufacturing, they will employ labour. Peter Obi: A new Nigeria is possible if you vote for me ADC guber candidate tackles Abiodun over 75 demoted Obas “From there they will do export, exchange will stabilise, we have finished running everything, we are only awaiting execution. Give us power and you will see that a new Nigeria is possible,” Obi said. The former Anambra State Governor also said that food would be in surplus and that no Nigerians would have reason to be hungry again. Speaking earlier, Obi’s running mate, Dr. Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed, said it was time for citizens to take back their rights and that the LP was willing to help them so Nigerians can secure it if they can join hands with them. He said the name Peter Obi stood for hope and that for eight years he was governor he did not borrow money rather he left enough. “Anybody who tells you the security situation in the country has improved does not mean well for Nigeria. Peter Obi will unite Nigeria. We are coming to do things differently. Peter Obi is going to work for Nigeria. Vote for us on February 25 for a better Nigeria.” The National Chairman of the LP, Julius Abure, commended the FCT residents for their show of love and support. He said Nigeria a blessed country has been mismanaged by bad leaders and that labour party would reverse the negative trend and create a great country.