Sixteen years after, the Ogun International Cargo Airport recorded the first aircraft landings even as the state government received the Certificate of Operation from the Federal Government. Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika presented the certificate to Governor Dapo Abiodun at the ceremony attended by Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo at Iperu Remo in Ikenne Local Government Area of the state.. The airport project was conceptualised 16 years during the administration of the then Governor of the State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel which could not actualise it until the new governor came and took over the project. There was controversy over the airport project as the former Governor, Ibikunle Amosun was putting pressure on the Federal Government to approve the airport project he initiated and located at Wasimi, Ewekoro local government in Ogun West. But after 16 years of the conceptualization, the airport project is becoming a reality following the completion of the 4km runway and the test flight which was a requirement for the full certification of the airport. Two aircraft- a commercial plane CRJ900 with tail number 5N-BXS and another smaller jet, 5N-PDA. The state governor said despite the many opposition and distraction to the project, it has finally become a reality, recalling that the construction started in September 2021. He said the test-flight was a prerequisite to the final certification of the airport, disclosing that the project would be commissioned in a couple of weeks. According to him, the airport is strategic in supporting the promotion of exports of goods which Nigeria is pursuing. He said it would serve as an alternative to the Murtala Muhammed Airport in Lagos. “This project is part of an integrated development programme aimed at unleashing the full potentials of this great state. “The choice of this location allows for easy access from different parts of the state including Lagos, the commercial capital of Nigeria. The Eastern and Northern regions of Nigeria can also easily access this location,” he said. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo said the airport would transform the entire South-West as a key economic zone and agricultural processing zone for the country even as the Kajola Dry Port would also be operational in a few months. 