 A 12-year-old female student of Chrisland International High School, Opebi, Lagos, Whitney Adeniran, slumped and died on Thursday during the school’s inter-house sports competition. The incident brought the school’s annual sporting event to an abrupt end as staff and parents who had converged left immediately after the news of the girl’s death. The deceased’s father, Dr Michael Adeyemi Adeniran, said his daughter was full of life when she left for school to participate in the inter-house at the Agege Stadium. In a Facebook post, he wrote: “To the biggest shock of my life by 1pm I got a call from my wife that she was informed that our daughter slumped at the inter-house and was rushed to the clinic….My wife was at the venue before the events started. She was never informed or called until they had conveyed our child out of the venue before they informed her. “On arrival of my wife at the health centre where they took my daughter to, my daughter was lying dead with her lips black and her tongue black. “My wife called me, I left my office and found my 12-year-old daughter lying dead on the ground. I asked questions about what happened to my daughter and the school authority could not get me any information as to what happened to my child in their care. “I gave Chrisland school a healthy, vibrant young girl, but what Chrisland returned to me was a dead child. My entire family is in deep sorrow, but the school’s authorities claimed they knew nothing about my daughter’s death and that all they knew was that my daughter slumped and died.” Confirming the incident, the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, said the command had ordered for autopsy to ascertain the actual cause of her death. “Yes, the command is aware of this unfortunate incident. Investigation is currently ongoing. The State Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi has ordered that autopsy be carried out. It is the report that would determine the cause of death,” he said. However, the management of the school could not be reached as at the time of filing this report.