Former President Olusegun Obasanjo on Thursday in Abuja frowned on the appointment of former Inspectors General of Police (IGPs) as chairmen of the Police Service Commission (PSC). President Muhammadu Buhari appointed former IGP Musiliu Smith as chairman of the PSC in 2018. He resigned in 2022 and retired Justice Clara Ogunbiyi took over as acting chairman. In January 2023, the president appointed another retired IGP Solomon Arase as substantive chairman of the PSC. Obasanjo expressed his misgivings when he spoke at the public presentation of a book, “Policing the Nigeria Police,’’ authored by a former chairman of the PSC, Chief Simon Okeke. 2 arraigned for flogging traditional ruler Naira swap/cashless policy may affect troops – NSA “When you make a retired police officer the head of the Police Service Commission, it is like asking a thief to catch a thief,” he said. He said civilians should be appointed as chairmen and retired police officers appointed as members of the PSC to ensure effective and efficient service delivery. The former president noted that the author believed that Nigeria should not have a unitary police establishment as people had argued that state police would be abused by governors. “I won’t say yes or no, but can they not be abused by the federal government? “For a federation, it is contrary to the ideal of the country because unitary policing system is not close enough to the community where the police are supposed to be. “The author argued whether the name should truly be the Nigeria Police Force or a Police Service. I believe the police should be a police service, not a police force,” Obasanjo said. He said the author brought up a strong argument in support of state police as well as the training and retraining of police officers, which he agreed with. Obasanjo noted also that the author argued strongly against the authorised and unauthorised deployment of police personnel to private guard duties leading to having many police officers in the security service of few individuals. Out of 380,000 police personnel at a time, 180,000 were on private duties carrying out duties corruptively, the author wrote. In his remarks, Mr Ray Ekpu, Publisher of the book recalled that the PSC was first created by the Independence Constitution of 1960. He said it remained strong until the appointment of IGPs was transferred to the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces.(NAN)