Dwindling popularity and acceptance of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its stakeholders with Kano masses and elite has reached the end point. The outlook of the APC is bad. The APC stakeholders led by Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje have been troubled by a recent statewide reliable opinion poll commissioned by Anap Foundation and conducted by NOIPolls Limited which showed that the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) governorship candidate, Abba Kabir Yusuf, would be the next governor of the state. Kano people aren’t surprised by this positive projection which is an obvious reflection of their referendum for a long-lasting break away from bad governance, bizarre corruption, poor economic policies, lack of good welfare for youth, women and the aged. Kano households and traders have shown resilience to anti-people policies at the state and national levels, skyrocketing cost of living, unemployment rate and difficult business operating environment, as they strive through the economic machination of the APC government which has till May, 2023 to transit from the state to the great oblivion. Dishearteningly, after exhausting their youthful energy in the service of the state, it’s now an informal requirement to have connection with the first family for pensioners to get their pay. Workers do not receive their full salary anymore. What you see is what you get at any date the government decides to pay with incessant unjustifiable deductions. Road infrastructure has become terrible with potholes dominating the metropolitan roads while there is a total neglect of rural areas which are battling with multifaceted socio-economic and security problems undergirded by the APC government. A few youth empowerment programmes were carried out for what can simply be described as image laundering. Under the government of the APC in Kano, education, which is the bedrock of development in every society, has been reduced to the level of absurdity with poor infrastructure and lack of motivation for teachers to deliver knowledge and parents to enrol their children.  The deceitful pronouncement of free and compulsory education by the administration has done more harm than good to the millions of children at basic, secondary and tertiary institutions in the state. Kano APC’s fabric stinks especially since the election of Governor Ganduje; the people who are ready to set themselves free by voting in the coming days. They are losing numerous stakeholders and members to the NNPP as the election continues to draw near plus the collapse of their election rigging plans which have come under national and international observers’ microscope to prevent a repeat of 2019 stolen mandate. It is unfortunate that the choice of the APC 2023 gubernatorial candidate, Nasir Yusuf Gawuna, and his deputy, Murtala Sule Garo, was mainly a reward for their major role in disrupting the 2019 election at Gama collation centre in Nasarawa Local Government where the duo were arrested by the police as shown in a video that is still trending in the social media. Kano people have not forgotten the shameful insistence that also left scores injured. The attack on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari, is a pointer to the reality of imminent defeat at the polls facing the APC in Kano. They have since resorted to intimidation, harassment and maiming of members of the opposition parties using state resources and security apparatus. The reality is that, beating a dead horse is a dissipation of energy. That is what APC ineffectual efforts represent as people of Kano have made up their mind to vote them out. As a peace-loving party, members and stakeholders of the NNPP in Kano have grown thick skin against political intimidation by the ruling APC. On several occasions, thugs were mobilised to disrupt our rallies. They destroyed cars and caused tension in the state. Our determination to win 2023 elections from the presidential down to the state assembly is a resolve supported by Allah’s grace and pedigree of our leader Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso, the presidential candidate of the NNPP. Surely, the chances of Kwankwasiyya movement to win all the elections in 2023 outweigh the 2019 scenario which defeated Ganduje but was rescued by the federal might through a broad day robbery of the mandate of the good people of Kano. NNPP’s Kano state gubernatorial candidate, Engr. Abba Kabir Yusuf (Abba Gidada), is a governor-in-waiting who is full of energy to restore the glory of Kano and redirect the state to the right path of development through purposeful leadership and good governance.  Dawakin-Tofa, the chief campaign spokesman of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) for Kano, 2023, can be reached via   sabature360@yahoo.com