The Supreme Court has nullified the nomination of Senator Emmanuel Bwacha as the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate for Taraba State. A five-member panel of justices led by Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun on Wednesday affirmed the verdict of the Federal High Court in Jalingo which in November last year held that the APC did not conduct a valid governorship primary in the state. In the lead judgment by Justice Adamu Jauro, the apex court noted that the result of the primary was fraudulently allocated to Bwacha. An APC governorship aspirant, David Kente, had approached the high court to challenge the outcome of the May, 2022, primary, after the Chairman of the APC governorship primary election in the state, Lawrence Onuchukwu, alleged that the committee members were threatened during the exercise. The high court nullified the primary and ordered a fresh primary within 14 days, while directing the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to desist from recognising Bwacha as APC candidate. A Federal High Court in Abuja, in a similar suit by another of the eight aspirants alleged to have been defeated by Bwacha, Senator Yusuf Yusuf, last year, also nullified the primary. However, Bwacha filed an appeal at the Court of Appeal in Yola, Adamawa State, which overturned the decision of the Federal High Court in Jalingo, before the latest verdict of the apex court. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');Bwacha, Kante’s camps react Kante commended the apex court’s justices for the “sound judgment” and urged his supported to remain calm and wait for the decision of the party’s national body. Chief Shuaibu Ataka, Secretary of the David Kente Governorship Campaign Organisation, while briefing newsmen in Jalingo said the judgment would serve as a lesson to politicians who felt the society should continue with its old draconian ways. Ataka expressed optimism that Kante would win the ticket of the party. On his part, Senator Bwacha said he is well-prepared for a fresh primary, expressing confidence that he would win again. Mr Aaron Artimas, who spoke on behalf of Bwacha camp, said they were not deterred by the Supreme Court’s ruling. “Senator Bwacha is not a paper candidate and has the support and backing of all members of APC in Taraba state,” Artimas said.  By John C. Azu (Abuja) & Magaji Isa Hunkuyi (Jalingo)