Buba Galadima, an engineer, is an ally of the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) and former governor of Kano State, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso. He is also a chieftain of the party. In this interview on Trust TV’s Daily Politics, he spoke on how some politicians hid old naira notes at home and are now stranded. He also dismissed the claim that the candidate of the All Progressives Progress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, was instrumental to the emergence of the then candidate of the party, Muhammadu Buhari to win the presidency by bringing votes from the South West, saying if the recently introduced Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is allowed to work properly, Kwankwaso will win just the way the then Card Reader did the magic for Buhari in 2015.  Recently, President Muhammadu Buhari met with the chairman of the Governors Forum, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto, and chairman of the Progressives Governors’  Forum, Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, as well as the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele. Do you think this meeting and others would come out with a child with two eyes? We in the NNPP have taken a very strong position on the issue of this redesigned currency and exchange. First of all, our decision was guided by the CBN Act, which states that in an event where we want to redesign or re-colour any of our currency, it should be done within a period of not less than six months. Now, we are torn between two lines: the government said they were doing this because a lot of people had amassed wealth, I mean hoarded currency in their private houses. I agree. How? This is because I know from intelligence that there is a governor in the North-western part of this country that has about N22billion of the old currency. Are you sure of what you are saying? Yes, N22billion of the old currency stacked in his house as I speak to you. He knows himself. And the security agencies know. Why are they not talking? It is because maybe they belong to the same club or they are protecting him. Or maybe they set a trap for him? Well, the trap is for him to go out to change the money. How can one man have N22bn in cash he accumulated through corruption? My worry is the ordinary man in Yobe, Tulotulo, who has got only N1,000 as capital. I would rather allow the system to be cheated by one individual because that man’s money is legitimate money. Our party’s support base are ordinary people, young men and women, the so-called talakawa and in Yobe. I want to say that there are places that are more than 200 kilometres from any bank, meaning that there are banks only in Gashua, Nguru, Potiskum and Damaturu in the whole of Yobe. Go to Kanamma, up to the border with Damasak in Borno, that is about 100 kilometres to Gaidam. From Gaidam to Gashua is 105 kilometres and from Gaidam to Damaturu is 175kilometers; to Potiskum is about 200kilometers. So how does he bring that capital of N1,000 or N2,000 to exchange? It won’t even transport him? Yes. And that is his capital. In fact, somebody with N1,000 in such communities is a rich man. Is it because of the level of poverty? Of course, that is where you have to remove your thatched house every year because before 12 calendar months, the sand dunes have overtaken the roof. And human beings live there – no electricity, no water, nothing. They don’t even know that there is a government and you make that person lose his N1,000? If he curses you, God will accept his prayers. So it is him that is our problem, not the one with N22bn stacked in his house. Is the governor with the N22bn looking for second term? It doesn’t matter what term he is looking for, it is stolen money. Why can’t security agencies, including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), raid that place and take away the money since they know? People are calling out the CBN governor, are you one of them? No, I congratulate him. But people are cursing him. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-large-mobile-banner-2','ezslot_5',184,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-large-mobile-banner-2-0');Well, because they don’t understand where the buck stops. Is it at the table of the president? Is it the first time the present president is doing this? Was Emefiele there in 1984 when he did it? This is his (Buhari’s) brainchild. Nigerians are saying that changing the naira at this time was actually a dummy sold to the president. Even members of the APC are saying so; do you not agree with them? Emefiele is a servant of the president, so he dares not redesign the currency without an explicit permission and expression. The president has said he approved it. It is his thinking, not a dummy. People are cowards and sycophants. Are you saying this because of your long time relationship with the president, although you are no longer together? It is Buhari’s handiwork, not Emefiele’s. So the claim by APC governors that Emefiele is behind it is not true? It is because they don’t want to attack the president; they are attacking the messenger. But why are they doing that? It is because Emefiele is gajeriyar danga (short fence), which is the easiest place to jump to the other side. Our presidential candidate and leader (Kwankwaso) has said he is begging Mr President, for the sake of that man with N1,000 in a faraway Tulotulo. Let them extend the time. The president listened and extended the deadline by 10 days, but that was not enough. Our candidate said there was no need for an ordinary man to lose his legitimate earnings; God will not forgive Nigeria if that happens. He said that when he wins the presidential election, let everybody go to the bank and get his money exchanged. And unless there is something unusual, there is manipulation and rigging, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso will win the election on February 25, 2023. Will he print money and give to people? We are modifying that position. Let Buhari instruct all local governments across the country to open their treasuries and take legitimate money from citizens and deposit in the bank, such that nobody should be made to lose. I don’t know about remote villages, but as far as towns and many villages are concerned, old and new notes are not there and people are worried, what do you think? We were told, and I tend to believe that there is scarcity of the new notes, so people spend days trying to change or withdraw. The money is not there, but the Central Bank claimed they had given enough money to banks. If they gave the banks enough money, where did it go? I have not seen a new naira note for the last 15 days. The authorities ought to know. We were told that they are trying to stop people from vote-buying, but they are rather trying to stop the masses from going to villages. Is there anybody in Nigeria that doesn’t know that Fidelity Bank belongs to Peter Obi? Is there anybody who can raise his finger and tell me that bank owners are not either friends to Tinubu or Atiku? They may be friends to your candidate too. Is that correct? None of them is his friend. But many are friends to Kwankwaso… None; let the banker raise his finger. We almost got stranded in Kwara because we couldn’t buy fuel, and they were not taking transfer. Are you saying the CBN policy is actually targeted at you? Of course, that’s what we assume. Why is the money scarce? The CBN told us they gave out money, but we are not seeing it. Where’s the money? What’s the problem now? if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[300,250],'dailytrust_com-large-mobile-banner-1','ezslot_4',188,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-large-mobile-banner-1-0');The people they claimed they wanted to stop from getting money for vote-buying are the ones collecting it because they have friends who are managing directors of banks. Do you have facts? I am not alleging. If they (politicians) are not collecting the money, it means that managing directors of banks are stealing it. So, the money is just circulating among them. What about your candidate? No. What about the 14 other candidates? There is nothing like 14, there are only four candidates in this election. Do you think the decision of the president would not stop vote-buying? It cannot; they (politicians) have access to money. The only problem they have is that the one they stacked in the house cannot go into the system. Is it difficult to go into the system? Yes. It then means the president has achieved something, don’t you think so? The one that amassed N22billion is a loss. Is it not possible for him to share the money to avoid the loss? How many people will you give N1million to take to the system? Don’t you think the world would know? He has security in the house, so they will report. 