The Presidential campaign train of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and that of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) separately berthed in Lokoja and Damaturu respectively on Wednesday where the candidates renewed their campaign promises to the people. While Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu who spoke at the Confluence Stadium in Lokoja, said he is a city boy that is set to industrialise the nation for a better standard of living, Atiku Abubakar who was in Damaturu, the Yobe State capital promised to restore peace and security as well as open all the borders in the country if elected to lead the country in 2023. Tinubu said he is a “beach boy” that knows the roads that will fix the economy of this nation better than any other candidate in the forthcoming presidential election. “I know how to do it. I’m a road runner, a better candidate; man who knows roads. A man who keeps promises”, he said, adding that he has been vindicated by the Supreme Court ruling over his alarm on the new policy on the redesigned naira notes. While pledging that the Ajaokuta Iron and Steel company in the state will be revived fully,he added that dredging of the River Niger, industrialisation and agricultural production will be pursued  vigorously  to create jobs in the society  . He commended the people of Kogi for turning up in their thousands to receive him and his campaign team, stressing that he will reciprocate their gesture, if voted to power in the forthcoming presidential election. Governor Yahaya Bello described Tinubu as a man of many parts, stressing that they see him a leader, father and a president in waiting, considering his antecedents in the public service. Governor Bello added that when Senator Tinubu becomes the president of this nation, there will be money, jobs, infrastructure while stemming the tide of insecurity which has bedeviled the nation. The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, yesterday took his campaign to Damaturu, the Yobe State capital where he promised to restore peace and security as well as open all the borders in the country if elected to lead the country in 2023. Meanwhile, the former Nigeria Vice President while addressing party faithful in Damaturu promised to restore the country’s wealth and also ensure that children return back to school and face their studies. “Do you want peace, education, security and open all borders? Vote for me and PDP candidates at all levels” he told voters. Others who spoke at the PDP Presidential campaign rally in Damaturu were: the spokesperson for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council, Senator Dino Melaye, APC’s former Head of Civil Society Organisations Naja’atu Muhammad and former Minister of Police Affairs Adamu Maina Waziri.  By Tijani Labaran, (Lokoja) & Habibu Idris Gimba (Damaturu)