President Muhammadu Buhari and the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, yesterday told the Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III that the ruling party wished to win the coming elections. Both key political figures spoke Thursday during a courtesy visit to the palace of the Sultan before leaving for the Giginya Memorial Stadium, Sokoto, the venue of the party’s presidential and gubernatorial campaign rally. Tinubu told the Sultan  that: “We have come here to ask for your support and blessings; we want to win the coming elections. “I have come to be presented to you as a candidate. The President and Commander-in-Chief, Muhammadu Buhari is here in person to do that. I want to win the election. Is there a way you will decline the request of the president?” Kwara ex-milad backs Tinubu, AbdulRazaq Nigeria’s judicial system needs transformation – IRS chair While speaking, President Buhari said, “My wish is for your support and blessings; we want to win.” The president, who narrated the qualities of the candidates, including their common belief and commitment to the unity and progress of every section of the country, said he had associated with Asiwaju for more than 20 years and did not have any reservations in supporting him as the candidate of the APC. Meanwhile, the duo and their delegation later moved to the Giginya Memorial Stadium, Sokoto, where they addressed supporters. In his address to party faithful, Tinubu promised to eliminate corruption and banditry when elected. He said: “In 2015, we came to clean the mess with a broom and it was called the broom revolution. The dirt is still left on the ground and we said we need to clean some more. I applied to be the cleaner so we can clean the dirt. “We promised to work hard; we will eliminate corruption. We will end the madness of kidnapping. We will work hard to clean Nigeria of rubbish.” Highlight of the event was the reception of defectors from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), including Alhaji Umarun Kwabo A.A. who was said to be the godfather of the deputy governor of the state, Manir Dan’iya, the immediate past Treasurer of PDP in the state, Murtala Dan’iya and two former commissioners, Dr. Kulu Haruna and Col. Garba Moyi (rtd) among others. Meanwhile, the deputy governor of Sokoto State, Manir Muhammad Dan’iya has refuted his purported resignation from the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). A statement signed by the Director Press in the Deputy Governor’s office, Aminu Abubakar, said: “Our attention has been drawn to a letter purportedly issued in Sokoto that the Sokoto State deputy governor, Manir Dan ‘iya had resigned from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “This is untrue and a blatant lie. Manir Dan’iya is still a bonafide member of PDP to which he has reaffirmed his unwavering loyalty and support. He is hereby dissociating himself from the letter.”