A senator of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ibikunle Amosun, yesterday led the African Democratic Congress (ADC) governorship campaign in Ogun State against his party’s candidate and incumbent governor, Dapo Abiodun. Amosun, a former governor of the state, stormed the ADC governorship campaign flag off held at the Ake palace ground in Abeokuta to mobilise support for his anointed candidate, Biyi Otegbeye, who is running on the platform of ADC. Daily Trust reports that that was the second time Amosun would openly campaign against Abiodun, his friend turned foe. In 2019, the former governor backed Adekunle Akinlade who ran on the platform of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) but lost to Abiodun with about 19,000 votes. Amosun again turned against Abiodun ahead of the March 11, election, asking the Ogun electorate to reject him at the poll. On Wednesday, Amosun raised Otegbeye’s hand and that of his running mate, Tunde Awonuga, and asked the electorate to vote for them. He explained that his support for Otegbeye was based on equity, justice and fairness because the Yewa-Awori region where the ADC flagbearer hailed from had never produced a governor since the creation of the state. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[250,250],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');Amosun, however, called on the electorate to vote for his party’s presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu. He said, “There are two reasons why I’m doing what I’m doing. The first one is based on equity, justice, fairness….Ogun State is almost 50 years old now. Since the creation of this Ogun State, nobody from Ogun West has been governor. Some characters are saying Yewa doesn’t have good people, I know they have. Yewa has good children I know that can do it. He (Otegbeye) is a lawyer he has been tested and trusted. “The second reason, and that is very important, is that Ogun State must not derail. We have set the path of development for Ogun State, we must not allow it to be derailed.” 