Leaders of Fulani communities (Ardos) from across the country under the agesis of Fulbe United for Peace and Development have endorsed the presidential bid of the presidential candidate of the All progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. According to Abdulaziz Abdulaziz, Special Assistant to the APC Presidential Candidate on Media and Publicity, the leaders converged on Abuja on Sunday. He quoted them as saying as leaders of Fulani ethnic nationality, they were satisfied with the antecedents of Tinubu and his plans for Nigeria. At the event, which was held in conjunction with a socio-political group, Arewa New Agenda, the group said it would use its 33,661 members to mobilize millions of their members to vote for Tinubu in the presidential poll. Addressing the gathering after performing the kolanut-sharing tradition, leader of the group, Ardo Aliyu Liman Bobboi, said with the sharing of the kola, the leaders would go back with the message to their people on the decision reached at the meeting. We‘ll work with women across states for Tinubu’s victory – Badaru Nyako&#8217;s son: How Tinubu helped my father escape to London after Northern govs ditched him He said the gathering was an avenue to underscore their support, trust in his leadership qualities and capacity to administer the country effectively if he emerges victorious at the poll. According to him, the Ardos, as leaders of the people, have final say on the position of their people and would follow it to the latter to ensure compliance. Liman, who made reference to Tinubu’s Fulani associates who accompanied him to the meeting, including Governors Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, Abubakar Badaru of Kano and Jigawa states, respectively, and pioneer Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Nuhu Ribadu, expressed optimism that the Tinubu led presidency would ensure the well-being of the Fulani ethnic nationality in Nigeria. The group also conferred on Tinubu the title of “Barkindo” (the blessed one) which they described as a revered title among the Fulani. Ganduje who spoke glowingly of Tinubu’s leadership qualities described the Fulani people, who have cohabited peaceably with their fellow Nigerians, as an endangered specie that deserve to be catered for and protected in the years ahead. Speaking at the event, the APC presidential candidate, who reminisced the cordial relationship between his late mother Alhaja Abibatu Mogaji, himself and Fulani inhabitants of Lagos State over the years, expressed gratitude for the show of love and support for his ambition. He reiterated his commitment to creating an enabling environment where Nigerians irrespective of their ethnic and religious backgrounds shall cohabit and live peaceably with one another without let or hindrances. Tinubu said: “Prior to this day I never thought I would meet a Fulani man who speaks better Yoruba. That is very wonderful. “This is the Nigeria that we want, we expect Nigeria to be united with one voice, sharing of culture and belief in each other. I want to tell you if we stay here for the next five hours it’s the same story you would be hearing from me. Thank Almighty Allah. “We have had problems with herders. But I guarantee you today that the problem would be solved permanently. The blueprint is almost ready. We will plan with it. The world is fair and good for all of us. if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[336,280],'dailytrust_com-leader-1','ezslot_4',183,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-leader-1-0');“We have to live in peace not only because of today but because of our children and grandchildren. “What we learn about the Fulanis is their simplicity and commitment to promises. “When they give you commitment you get it. I hope I can transfer the blood , spirit that I got from you to my grandchildren for the unity stability and peace of Nigeria. You know you are in my heart. We will make Nigeria great. And we will make the name Fulani a very respectable name.”