Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has made a U-turn on the availability of Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium for the PDP presidential campaign. Wike had earlier revoked the access granted to the PDP Presidential campaign. But speaking at the PDP rally at Ogu town in Ogu-bolo local government area of the State, on Tuesday, Wike said he had accepted that the rally should hold at the venue on February 11. “This morning after appeal from people who talked to me, I gave them back Adokiye Amiesimaka. Go and campaign. Let it not be that because they didn’t campaign that is why they didn’t win in Rivers State,” he said. Ayu: Ortom has nowhere to go, Ikpeazu already leaving Wike&#8217;s camp Can Ayu make the sacrifice? Wike also said none of the G-5 Governors visited Dr Iyorchia Ayu, National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). At the PDP rally in Markudi, Benue State capital, Ayu had said Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia visited him after his preferred aspirant lost the rerun governorship primary rerun in Abia. “We have resolved the problem with Governor Ikpeazu and he is coming back. Two days ago, he was in my house because his candidate lost the primary,” Ayu had said. But Wike described the comment as blackmail, insisting that neither he nor any G5 governor went to the residence of Ayu. “Nobody can blackmail us. We’ll never go and meet anybody. We are who we are. This is not the first time we have battled. This battle we will win at the end of the day,” he said. He said he and his colleagues in the G-5 were determined not to allow any person to chase them away from a party that they have built. “We have gone to court against them. We are not running away from them, all our candidates went to court, our party went to court. I went to court too. We’ll stay here and we’ll battle it. We are not going to run away from anybody. “Are we going to run away from armed robbers? It’s not possible. You can’t chase us away from the house we built. Rather, we’ll chase you out because you are used to running away,” he pointed out. Led by Wike, Governors Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Samuel Ortom (Benue) Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu) and Ikpeazu are members of G-5, which is at daggers drawn with Ayu.