Heifer International’s sponsored agritech storage solution; ColdHubs, was yesterday formally introduced into the Lagos market with the launch of the facility for smallholder farmers and sellers of perishable farm produce at the ABAT CBD Market in Ibeju-Lekki. The ColdHubs innovation, which is being sponsored on a large scale by Heifer International, is part of the measures to increase storage capacity and ensure last-mile connectivity to prevent post-harvest losses experienced by small-holder farmers and to ensure food security in Nigeria. Stakeholders in the agriculture sector have variously attributed lack of storage and processing facilities as one of the major problems facing agricultural development in Nigeria, stating that post-harvest activities like storage must be given the right inputs. At the launch which was witnessed by farmers, farm produce traders and government officials, Rufus Idris, Country Director of Heifer International, Nigeria, explained that ColdHubs innovation will help Nigeria to attain food sufficiency and reduce hunger. It will enhance the capacity of farmers and sellers of perishable farm produce to earn more income and also reduce unemployment. Heifer International will this year support ColdHubs to produce additional ColdHubs facilities in Lagos markets out of a total of 40 planned for the year. Also speaking at the ceremony, the founder and CEO of ColdHubs, Mr. Nnaemeka Ikegwuonu said, “post harvest loss is huge in Nigeria but with ColdHubs’ innovation, we have gotten production and processing of farm produce right. The facility will surely increase farmers’ economic earning power and also help buyers as they will always have fresh and healthy farm produce to buy”. The Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Adesola Olusanya, said at the occasion that ColdHubs is of paramount importance to the state and it is in line with the five-year Development programme drawn by the state in 2021 to ensure food security and sufficiency for Lagos residents.