The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expelled Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, John Fayose, son of former Ekiti governor, Lere Olayinka, spokesman of ex-Governor Ayo Fayose and some other persons. The expulsion was ratified at the 566th meeting of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. According to the party, their expulsion was due to anti-party activities. “The National Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party at its 566th meeting today, Friday, February 10, 2023, approved the expulsion of the following individuals from the Party for anti-Party activities and other grave offences in violation of the Constitution of the PDP (as amended in 2017),” the party said in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary Debo Ologunagba. “The expulsion takes effect from today, Friday, February 10, 2023. The decision of the NWC is a sequel to the recommendation of the National Disciplinary Committee and pursuant to Sections 58 and 59 (1)(g) of the PDP Constitution (as amended in 2017. Appeal Court sacks Abacha, restores Wali as PDP guber candidate in Kano 2023: We&#8217;ve learned our lessons, will make amends this time &#8211; PDP “The PDP charges all members of our Party across the country to remain united and focused on the mission of our Party to Rescue, Rebuild, and Redirect our nation from misrule.” The travail of Nnamani and those expelled started after they took different positions on issues on the party. Nnamani has been publicly campaigning for Tinubu while Fayose’s son and Olayinka, his former spokesman, refused to attend the rally of Atiku Abubakar, Presidential Candidate of the party in Ado-Ekiti. Meanwhile, in a swift reaction Nnamani told the party leadership that it has no power to expel him and as such the sack is a nullity. Nnamani stated that the Dr Iyorchia Ayu-led NWC did not follow due process and strict compliance with the provisions of the PDP Constitution and therefore lacked the powers to suspend or expel him as a member of the National Assembly. Senator Nnamani in a letter to the PDP NWC through his, Counsel Olusegun O. Jolaawo (SAN), stated that only the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party has such powers. 