 The Jigawa State Governor, Abubakar Badaru, has said stakeholders in the All Progressives Congress (APC) will work with women across the 36 states of the federation for the victory of the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on February 25. Badaru spoke yesterday during the APC Northern Female Stakeholders Strategy Session in Abuja. He said Tinubu’s emergence as President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor would help consolidate the “giant strides” of the current administration. The governor also encouraged the women to work hard, campaign vigorously for Tinubu’s victory for their inclusion in the administration. He said, “Asiwaju and Shettima care about the development of women and will be there for you. We will support you for Asiwaju/Shettima victory.” The APC Deputy National Women Leader, Beta Edu, who represented the APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, urged all women to vote for Tinubu/Shettima for inclusive governance. She said, “Opposition is not an option. All state women leaders must make sure they deliver their states top to bottom for Tinubu and Shettima. “A lot of work is required to win the elections. Sitting in Abuja will not work the magic. We need intense mobilisation at the grassroots. “Let us go out there, door-to-door, street-to-street and work for the party. Asiwaju will reward you.” Meanwhile, the APC National Vice Chairman (North West), Salihu Mohammed Lukman, has expressed optimism that Tinubu would win all the seven states in the zone, including Sokoto, currently governed by the Peoples Democrstic Party (PDP). In a statement on Sunday, Lukman said, the APC stakeholders were working assiduously to ensure that other candidates of the APC also won massively in the zone. He said, “Part of what must be acknowledged today is the fact that across all the seven states in the North West, our leaders and candidates have been able to reconcile with all party leaders and members and accordingly resolved all the challenges arising from internal party contests leading to the emergence of candidates for the 2023 elections. “All these signpost victory for the APC in the North West for our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in the presidential election of February 25, 2023, and all our candidates for the National Assembly. “It also signposts victory in the governorship and state assembly elections in all the seven states of the North West. We are very confident that with Allah’s blessing all the seven states of the North West, including Sokoto, will be APC states as from May 29, 2023. “As we move to Election Day, February 25, 2023, we are confident that our leaders in all the seven states of the North West will give all necessary guide to party members, candidates and all party supporters.”