The management of the Confluence University of Science and Technology (CUSTECH), Osara in Kogi State, has terminated the appointment of seven staff of the institution for allegedly collecting double salaries. According to the Head of Media of the institution, Balogun Omeiza David, the management acted in consonance with the audit exercise carried out in the school by the office of the Kogi State Auditor General, which revealed that the staff in question were conveniently receiving double salaries from Kogi State Government. He said the affected staff included one Shaibu Musa of the security unit, who was alleged to be collecting a salary from his former workplace, Kogi State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources since his assumption of duty at CUSTECH, on April 7, 2021. The other is Abubakar Ali of the Works and Maintenance Department, alleged also as collecting salary from Lokoja Local Government Authority since his assumption of duty at CUSTECH, Osara on January 11, 2022. Election: Nasarawa closes schools, Kogi declares holiday Remembering Alhaji Hassan Ahmed Danbaba (13th Magajin Garin Sokoto) The audit further found that Francis Amoto Lawal of the Bursary Department was discovered to have been collecting salary from his former workplace, Science, Technical Education and Teaching Service Commission since his assumption of duty at CUSTECH, Osara from July 7, 2021, while Philip Anakobe Onotu of the Works and Maintenance Department was discovered to be collecting salary from his former workplace at the Office of the Deputy Governor since his assumption of duty at CUSTECH, Osara on September 15, 2021. The audit also found that Abdulmajeed Damudi of the Department of Biological Sciences was also discovered collecting salary from his former workplace, Science, Technical Education and Teaching Service Commission since his assumption of duty at CUSTECH, Osara on February 9, 2021, while Folorunsho Joseph Ojo of the Bursary Department was discovered as also collecting salary from his former workplace, Kabba/Bunu Local Government Authority since his assumption of duty at CUSTECH, Osara from January 11, 2022. David said the audit found Haruna Yakubu, a senior patrolman of the Security Unit, to have absconded from duty since November 24, 2022, an action considered a serious misconduct and breach of the terms of his employment at CUSTECH, Osara. He added that the affected staff members were invited for an interactive session with a panel constituted by the Vice Chancellor, Engr. Prof. Salawu Sadiku, of the institution and they were found guilty of holding more than one full-time paid job in the public service of the federation, state and local government.