Ahead of Saturday’s Presidential elections, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed its full readiness for the polls, even as it boasted that its standard bearer Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu would carry the day by a landslide. National Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, during an interactive session with journalists in Abuja Wednesday night said: “For us as a party the only result we expect from this election is victory. We have worked really hard to expect victory.” According to Adamu no party has been able to put up a robust campaign like the APC had done, stressing that: “Our party ran an issue based and hitch free campaign devoid of mudslinging and other provocative acts.” “Our campaign rallies provided opportunities for us to explain to Nigerians the policies and programmes of the APC for the next four years. We laid before the voters how we intend to build on the legacies of President Muhammadu Buhari. “We focused on issues that are of concern to Nigerians and assured them that the APC has everything it takes to reset the country towards the path of renewal,” Adamu said. While appreciating the contributions, commitment and dedication of party leaders at all levels to the campaign process, Adamu said: “I am sure the efforts we have put into this campaign will definitely assure us of success at the polls.” Adamu said despite the disenchantment following the naira redesign policy of the CBN, the APC has not lost confidence that Nigerians would massively vote for the party. “We are not opposed to the policy but its implementation has become challenging. We are all facing the brunt because the timing is not good; more so that it is coming during an election season. But we have not lost confidence that Nigerians will stand by our party during the polls,” he said. Commending the professionalism exhibited by the media in covering the electioneering campaigns Adamu, however, cautioned against disinformation and fake news in the social media, saying: “We must remember that after this election there will be a country to govern.” 