President Muhammadu Buhari is currently chairing a meeting of Council of State at the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The meeting which started at 10:12am after the rendition of the national anthem is being attended by former heads of state and presidents, including Gen. Yakubu Gowon (retd), Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar (retd) and Goodluck Jonathan. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, joined online. Others who join virtually include Governor of Sokoto State and Chairman of Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), Aminu Tambuwal, Governor of Kebbi State and Chairman of Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Abubakar Bagudu, Governor of Plateau State and Chairman, Northern States Governors Forum, Simon Lalong. Buhari reconstitutes NSITF management board Building collapse: Town planners advocate death penalty for culprits The rest are governors David Umahi, Ebonyi, Yahaya Bello, Kogi, Ademola Adeleke, Osun, Abubakar Badaru, Jigawa, Dapo Abiodun, Ogun as well as Benue State deputy governors Benson Abounu, Nasarawa, Emmanuel Akabe, and Enugu Deputy governor. Two former Chief Justices of the Federation, Alfa Belgore and Mahmud Muhammad are in attendance. In attendance physically are Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, Speaker of the House of Representative, Femi Gbajabiamila, Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, and Head of Service of the Federation, Folashade Yemi-Esan Governors physically attending are: Taraba, Dairu Isiaku, Kaduna, Nasir El-Rufai, Borno, Babagana Zulum, Gombe, Inuawa Yahaya, Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Kwara, Abdulrahman Abdulrazak and Deputy Governor Bauchi, Baba Talla. The National Council of State is an organ of the Nigerian government whose functions include advising the executive on policy making. The meeting is expected to discuss national crises including petrol and naira scarcity, insecurity and others, ahead of the general elections. Also present and awaiting their turn to brief the council are Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Alkali Baba, Commandant General, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Hammed Audi and Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele on the preparation for the February 25 presidential and National Assembly elections as well as March 11 governorship and state houses of assembly polls and new Naira notes respectively.