Human beings have greatly advanced in technology over the past 60 years. From making computers fit in our pockets to creating a completely intangible currency, we have no limit as to how much we can accomplish.  Over the years, we have been in the process of discovering methods to remedy our impact on the environment. Although we have not come up with defined solutions, our efforts are more than enough for now. This is the case with three coins Cordana, Big Eyes Coin (BIG), and Solana.  Named as the most eco-friendly and environmentally sustainable coins in the market, Cardano uses a proof-of-stake mechanism. This allows them to consume a smaller amount of energy in their mining activities and thereby has a smaller impact on the environment.  This method of mining is reported to be 47 000 times more efficient than other coins. The platform can complete 1000 transactions per second whilst only using 6 GWh per year. In terms of an eco-friendly solution, Cardano is beginning to check all the boxes.    Big Eyes Coin (BIG) has been exploding in crypto news regarding their presale, offering several perks to investors including Loot Boxes, Sushi NFTs, and an ROI Calculator for visual confirmation of their goals. An important mention of the Kitty-themed meme coin is not only their effort toward ocean conservation but also toward their carbon footprint.  The first memorable mention is the feature of this coin that promises to donate 5% of its earnings to an ocean conservation charity like Sea Shepherd. The cute, lovable kitten that is the mascot for the platform will have no problem getting the attention of investors who are concerned about the environment.  The second memorable mention is of the low carbon footprint being produced. They achieve this by operating on a proof-of-stake mechanism which greatly reduces their impact by reducing the mining process.  Since its market debut in 2019, Solana has brought its A-game. The coin uses a proof-of-stake mechanism and is so environmentally friendly, each transaction only uses 1900 joules. Additionally, the Solana Foundation – the developmental feature of the blockchain – is continually working toward further reducing the impact that that platform has on the environment.  As a society, we are continually advancing our technology to suit our lives and provide more convenience. An improvement in the way we develop crypto is no exception. As we continue cultivating our eco-friendly practices, it will give investors some food for thought about the future of not only their financial investments but also their environmental investments.  For More On Big Eyes Coin (BIG) Presale: https://buy.bigeyes.space/ Website: https://bigeyes.space/ Telegram: https://t.me/BIGEYESOFFICIAL 