A Chief Magistrate’s Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital, has remanded the lawmaker representing Etche/Omuma federal constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon Ephraim Nwuzi, to the Nigerian Correctional Centre in the state. This followed a remand proceeding preferred against him by the Rivers State Police Command. The police had accused the federal lawmaker, who is also the All Progressives Congress candidate for Etche-Omuma Federal Constituency in the February 25, 2023 election of treasonable felony, conspiracy, motion of communal crisis and inciting violence. When the matter was mentioned in Court on Wednesday, counsel to the accused, Emenike Ebete, made an oral bail application. Presidential Poll: I’ll be neutral, Buhari tells Tinubu, Atiku, others 2023 election: Peter Obi of Nigeria and Nnamdi Kanu of Biafra The bail application was however opposed by the prosecution and the Investigation Police Officers in charge of the matter, requesting that Hon Nwuzi be remanded to pave the way for proper investigation and arraignment. Chief Magistrate O Amadi-Nna after listening to the arguments remanded Ephraim Nwuzi based on the allegations. Speaking to newsmen outside the court session, Counsel to the federal lawmaker, said the offences preferred against his client were insufficient to warrant a remand. Ebete stated, “We have also submitted to the court that the offences disclosed in the particulars and affidavit attached to the alleged allegations were not sufficient enough for him to be remanded. “The court in its wisdom held that the offences are gracious and that he should be remanded in prison custody until the 3rd of March 2023, pending when a charge will be preferred against him by the state.” Our correspondent gathered that Nwuzi was arrested on Wednesday morning at his residence in Chokocho, Etche LGA by policemen, who allegedly broke into his apartment. Recall that the spokesperson of the state Police Command, Grace Iringe-Koko in a statement said the Supervising Assistant Inspector General of Police for the elections in Rivers State, Abutu Yaro, had invited Hon. Nwuzi over an inciting video where he allegedly directed his supporters to attack some persons, including officials of INEC during the elections.