The Director of Special Projects and New Media of the Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, has said he is honouring the invitation by the Department of State Services (DSS) because he is used to arrests, interrogation, detention and prosecution. Fani-Kayode was invited by the DSS for interrogation for alleging that the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar has been meeting with top generals to possibly plot a coup in the country. Fani-Kayode, a former Minister of Aviation in a statement he signed on Monday said he has nothing to fear because he is a law-abiding citizen. Part of the statement reads, “I am used to arrests, interrogation, detention, prosecution and so much more and have suffered these indignities on many occasions over the last 15 years. Youths ‘abduct’ soldier in Anambra, steal service gun Why elections won’t hold in 240 polling units – INEC “For the record, I have said or done nothing wrong or that I should not have said or done and I stand by everything that I have said or written in the past on all issues. “It is not a crime to express my concerns about the despicable activities of Atiku who, in my view, has a hidden agenda and who is so desperate for power that he is prepared to do anything and turn the whole country upside down in order to achieve it. He continued, “I maintain my utter contempt for Atiku and the vermin that are around him and no matter what happens to me today or at any other time, know that as long as there is life in me, I will oppose the darkness and evil that they represent. “Unlike cowards like Emefiele, Atiku and their strange bedfellows I do not fear my own shadow and neither do I shiver and shake when I am invited by the security agencies. I always honour their invitations when properly invited because that is the right and proper thing to do. “I found it interesting that a call came from one of Atiku’s dogs for me to be arrested by the security agencies on Sunday and had it not been for the fact that the DSS had actually sent a text to me two days earlier I may have thought that they were acting on the instructions of what can only be described as a hopeless and desperate presidential candidate, opposition party and PCC who are clutching at straws, drowning fast, seeking to silence those that give them sleepless nights, shivering in despair and staring defeat in the face in the upcoming presidential election.”