Former champions, Plateau United yesterday defeated visiting El-Kanemi Warriors 5-0 at the New Jos stadium in the Match Day 8 of the 2022/23 abridged Nigeria Premier Football League (NPFL) season. The home side got off to a dream start when Sunday Anthony opened the scoring in the 2nd minute and 17 minutes later, Jackson Eru made it 2-0. That goal signalled it was going to be a harvest of goals as the home side got the third in the 27th minute through Ibrahim Mustapha who scored with his trademark header and later apologized to his home club. At the restart of the second half, the Peace Boys who were still thirsty for more goals were duly rewarded with the fourth in the 63rd minute when Michael Tochukwu scored from the spot and two minutes into stoppage time, Uche Onwuasanya, put the icing on the cake with the fifth goal. In the other mahes, Bendel Insurance defeated struggling Nasarawa United 1-0 at the Samuel Ogbemudia stadium in Benin City to remain the unbeaten side in the ongoing NPFL season. The ‘Solid Miners’ who earned their first league victory in the current campaign over the weekend sought to make it a second win but the ‘Benin Arsenal’ broke the deadlock in the 52nd minute when Ebuka Akobundu drove in with a ball to the edge of the box before releasing a rocket to break the wall of a helpless Jerry Isaac. Bendel Insurance who left Nasarawa United stranded have now amassed 20 points from six wins and a draw to remain on top of Group A. In the remaining matches in Group A, Enyimba shot down Shooting Stars 2-0 win in Aba while Kwara United under new gaffer, Kabiru Dogo, played a goalless draw with Remo Stars in Ibadan. In Group B, Dakkada bounced back from their 2-1 loss against Lobi Stars to dim Sunshine Stars 2-1in Uyo while Doma United defeated Abia Warriors by a lone goal. Elsewhere, Niger Tornadoes and Bayelsa United shared the spoils in a 1-1 draw while resurgent Wikki Tourist inflicted the second defeat of the campaign on Group B leaders, Lobi Stars in Bauchi. Meanwhile, Akwa United will trade tackles with Gombe United today but the match between Rivers United and Rangers has been postponed indefinitely. 