The all-new Mitsubishi Outlander has been unveiled into the Nigerian market at an event held at the Mitsubishi Motors showroom in Victoria Island, Lagos. Already a hit in markets where it has been launched, the new Outlander, which is a complete upgrade from its well-known predecessor, comes in two variants: the H-Line and the P-Line, both of which come with a 20-inch wheel and deliver incredible performance on demand. In terms of aesthetics, Mitsubishi was said to have raised the bar with the mid-size SUV model. The new Mitsubishi dynamic front shield is a distinctive and robust design, and a rear sculpted hexagon inspired by the Pajero back gate. It is indeed a real beauty to behold going by the array of features. Another complementary offering is the upper-class interior cabin that provides high noise and vibration isolation, as well as improved seating and comfort. It comes with a 2.5-liter, 4-cylinder petrol engine, which delivers enhanced horsepower and torque distribution to give the driver seamless acceleration. In addition, the state-of-the-art S-AWC technology comes with 6 available drive modes: Eco, Normal, Tarmac, Gravel, Snow, and Mud. This allows you to confidently move around in your new Mitsubishi Outlander regardless of the terrain, on and off-road, city, or countryside. Massilia said on building the All-New Outlander, so many things were considered such as parking sensors for the front and rear, an electric parking brake, and ventilated disks for the front and rear brakes. Some other features coming with the new vehicle for the convenience of the owner are adjustable side mirrors, power seats, a radio with MP3, Bluetooth, and smartphone display audio, among others, and the booth kick motion technology. The Sales General Manager, Massilia Motors, Mr Olatunji Itiola, stated that “At Massilia Motors, our commitment is to meet customers’ mobility expectations. We are excited to introduce this Mitsubishi flagship, which embodies pure Japanese craftsmanship, to the Nigerian market and we trust that the all-improved Mitsubishi Outlander will provide all the comfort, safety, and driving pleasure needed for our customers to drive their ambitions.” 