The FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the renewal of the appointment of chairmen and members of the boards of agencies of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA). Bello, on Tuesday, noted that most of the appointees were reappointed for a second term in office based on their commendable performance, while others replaced persons that stepped aside due to other responsibilities or political realignment. Among the appointees are a foremost town planner and former acting Executive Secretary of the FCDA, Mrs Zaliha’u Ahmed, who will serve as the Chairman of the FCT Urban and Regional Planning (URP) Tribunal; while a former FCTA Transportation Secretary, Mr Kayode Opeifa, was appointed as the Managing Director of the Abuja Urban Mass Transit Company (AUMTCO). Other appointments are the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) board headed by the FCT minister as chairman; while the Executive Secretary, FCDA, is to serve as secretary of the board. Other members are Hussaini Mongono, Haruna Hamza, Alhaji Bala Mamman, Hon Lawrence Onuchuku, Omasan Magrete Agbajoh, Solomon Ayuba Dagami, Solomon Adebayo Jemilehin and Hadiza Ladi Abdullahi. Nigeria elections matter to the world – US IBEDC cautions against destruction of facilities, attacks on staff Abuja Investment Company Limited’s (AICL’s) board is to be headed by Mal Yahaya Ibrahim as chairman. The Abuja Property Development Company (APDC) board is headed by Mohammed Idris as chairman. Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB) board headed by Dr Engr Bawuro Yahaya as chairman, while the Director, AEPB, is to serve as secretary. The Abuja Investment and Infrastructure Centre (AIIC) board is headed by the Secretary, Economic Planning RG & PPP as chairman, while the coordinator, AIIC, is to serve as secretary. FCT Secondary Education Board (FCT-SEB) board is headed by Alhaji Musa Yahaya as chairman, while the Director, SEB, is to serve as secretary. FCT Scholarship Board is headed by Barr Yakubu Haruna Gana as chairman, while the Director, FCT Scholarship Board, is to serve as secretary. Abuja Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) board is to be headed by Abubakar Jijiwa as chairman. 