Scores of members of the Labour Party (LP) in the South West yesterday dumped the party for the All Progressives Congress (APC) and declared support for the ruling party’s presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The former LP members, who were led by the South West Chairman of the party, Mr Banji Omotoso, also tore the party’s membership cards at an event held in Akure. Their defection to the APC was facilitated by the National Chairman of the South West Agenda for Asiwaju Tinubu (SWAGA) 2023, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, and other members of the support group. Speaking at the event, Mr Omotoso said leaders and members of the LP in the South West quit the party because it was not a viable political platform to win the 2023 elections. Old Naira notes no more legal tender – CBN declares FG mocks embassies over Abuja travel advisories Mr Omotoso also tackled the LP’s presidential campaign Director General, Mr Akin Osuntokun, saying he was only representing his personal interest and not the party members. Senator Adeyeye said the move of the supporters was a boost to the APC in the South West region. Reacting, the National Publicity Secretary of LP, Dr Arabambi Abayomi, said the party’s structure in the South West remained intact. Abayomi debunked the claim by “a few dozen” people that the entire South West LP had merged with the APC, saying the said meeting held in Akure was chaired by an expelled member of the party. He said, “The entire Labour Party of Nigeria has never at any time and will under no circumstances ever think of merging with any other party, not even the All Progressives Congress (APC) that has brought untold hardship and suffering to the entire nation. “The so-called South West Coordinator, Mr Banji Omotoso, is an expelled member of the party who since January, 2020, has ceased to have anything whatsoever to do with our great party. “Therefore, he has no authority from any quarters to speak for or on behalf of the Labour Party in the South West.” Chief Supo Shonibare, the Coordinator, Obi-Datti Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) in Lagos, in a chat with Daily Trust, said the official LP structure was firmly with Obi. 