Voters across the country have applauded the conduct of security operatives deployed for election duty, with some saying the personnel comported themselves professionally during yesterday’s voting exercise. The Nigeria Police Force had said 310,973 of its personnel were deployed for the exercise. The police officers were supported by 51,000 personnel from the National Security and Civil Defense Corps; 21,000 from the Federal Road Safety Corps; 11,336 from the Nigeria Correctional Service; 9,447 from the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency and 350 personnel from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Some of the voters who spoke to our correspondents said the majority of the security personnel at the polling units were friendly and maintained order without intimidating the electorate. BREAKING: Borno biggest market on fire BREAKING: Obi defeats Atiku with over 2,500 votes in Adamawa ward It was observed that in instances of unruly crowds due to frustration over late arrival of electoral officials and technical glitches, the security operatives ensured orderliness by appealing to the voters. Abuja In most polling units visited in Abuja, voters said policemen and other security agents maintained good conduct Rafael Ikechukwu Ejiofor, who voted at PU 009, GSS Wuse Zone 3, said security officers did not harass or intimidate any voter. He said, “Security agents, especially the police, worked to our satisfaction. An agent of a political party who tried to snatch a ballot box was arrested promptly.” However, our reporter observed a situation where policemen and personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) used abusive words to describe themselves over the refusal of the former to allow the latter pass through the popular Berger junction in the morning. Ogun The conduct of security personnel was peaceful and encouraging across Ogun State, our correspondent reports. As early as 7am, police officers, assisted by other security agents, barricaded major roads, flashpoints and entry points into Abeokuta, to enforce restriction of movement. However, some polling units were left unmanned. Kwara Many voters in Kwara, including Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq and former Senate President Bukola Saraki, expressed satisfaction for the conduct of the security officials during the exercise. At Oro ward II, Kwara South, where the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed voted, it was gathered that a Department of State Security (DSS) officer seized the phone of one of the party agents for bringing it to the polling unit but later returned it. “At my polling unit, the police were not partisan; they made sure that everyone was in order,” a voter in Edo State, Idahosa Johnson said. He said that in some polling units where violence broke out and materials were destroyed, police officers had to run since they were not armed. Akwa Ibom In Akwa Ibom State, it was gathered that police personnel were inadequate as many polling units had only one police officer to oversee the voting exercise. As such, it was difficult for the police personnel to quell crises in areas where they were pockets of fracas. Cross River In Cross River State, the police were calmer than the soldiers who took over roadblocks. The soldiers were armed to the teeth and seriously screened motorists, especially on highways. Bayelsa At the INEC office in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, where there was protest by aggrieved voters, policemen dispersed the protesters without any casualty. Also, at Ofoni ommunity, the hometown of the deputy governor, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, where some youths exchanged gunshots, policemen arrived timely. Lagos Policemen posted to provide security at the different polling units across Lagos state, according to some voters, acted professionally when compared to previous elections. “Policemen on election duty behaved themselves. The only disadvantage is that they were not armed and as a result, most voters did not respect their directive,” Taiwo Oluniyi said. Daily Trust on Sunday also observed that soldiers were drafted to the Oshodi area when some suspected political thugs caused mayhem at some of the polling units. In Oyo State, police officers were seen helping INEC officials to maintain sanity at some polling units. The police spokesperson in the state, Wale Osifeso, said there was no record of harassment or misbehaviour in any of the polling centres. Kano In Kano, police officers carried out their duties without intimidating anyone; and in some instances, they could be seen assisting and directing voters, journalists and observers to the right place to be. At Gwale Local Government Area, where the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) gubernatorial candidate voted, it was observed that while the candidate was accompanied by hundreds of his supporters, police officers were able to calmly prevail on them to allow only the candidate and his family access the voting areas while his supporters waited outside. Bauchi A voter in Bauchi metropolis, Bashir Hassan Abubakar said, “The calmness of the electorate aided the friendly conduct of the police. There was no harassment or intimidation. We hope the police would maintain the tempo throughout the election period.” Police beat journalist in Rivers A Punch reporter, Ggbenga Oloniniran, was on Saturday arrested by a team of policemen near the residence of Governor Nyesom Wike in Rumuiprikon, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State. Oloniniran was taking snapshots of a scene where policemen were arresting some youths at a polling unit when the operatives swooped on him. It was gathered that the operatives attached to the Swift Operation Squad seized his phone, slapped him and bundled him into their van. He was beaten while in the van, even as they deleted several pictures he had previously taken, including those of the arrest. He was, however, released after a call was put across to the state police spokesperson, Grace Iringe-Koko.  By Abdullateef Salau, Faruk Shuaibu, Dalhatu Liman, Seun Adeuyi (Abuja), Peter Moses (Abeokuta), Mumini Abdulkareem (Ilorin), Usman A. Bello (Benin), Nabob Ogbonna (Abakaliki), Bassey Willie (Yenagoa), Adenike Kaffi (Ibadan), Abdullateef Aliyu, Eugene Agha (Lagos), Iniabasi Umo (Uyo), Victor Edozie (Port Harcourt), Clement Oloyede (Kano), Eyo Charles (Calabar) & Hassan Ibrahim (Bauchi) 