 Group leaders, Bendel Insurance and Lobi Stars of Makurdi yesterday recorded victories in the final matches of the 2023 Nigeria Premier Football League (NPFL) abridged season first round. While Group A leaders, Bendel Insurance extended their lead to nine points after defeating second placed Enyimba FC 1-0 in Benin City to remain the only unbeaten side, Lobi Stars, leaders of Group B also edged past newly promoted Doma United 2-0 to take their points to 19, four more than second placed Sunshine Stars. Leading goalscorer, Imade Osehenkhoe, was the hero for Insurance once again as he scored the only goal in the 23rd minute to take his tally in the current campaign to six. At the New Jos Township stadium, Lobi Stars bounced back from the 1-2 loss at Wikki Tourists to humble visiting Doma United as two-quick fire goals in the early minutes of the match sent the debutants back empty handed. Fleet-footed Joseph Atule put Lobi Stars ahead in the 7th minute from the spot after Francis Odinaka was fouled in the box by an opposing defender and experienced attacker Umar Abba doubled the lead two minutes after the opening goal. In another week nine matches played yesterday, Bayelsa United fought back to draw 1-1 with Enugu Rangers in Yenagoa after their leading goalscorer Robert Mizo cancelled out Godwin Obaje’s opening goal which came as early as the 6th minute. At the Ahmadu Bello Stadium Kaduna, Niger Tornadoes moved up to fifth on the table and two points off the championship playoff places with a slim 1-0 win over Dakkada FC courtesy of David Okoromi’s goal in the 42nd minute. Struggling 3SC also fought back to force Akwa United to a 2-2 draw at the Lekan Salami stadium in Ibadan. Joshua Akpan gave the hosts the lead in the 15th minute but Uche Collins equalised for Akwa United in the 20th minute. Three minutes later, Liman Ahmadu put the visitors ahead but veteran striker, Ibrahim Ajani rescued a point for 3SC with his first half stoppage time equaliser. In Akure, Sunshine Stars bounced after their 1-2 loss at Dakkada FC as they pipped Wikki Tourists 1-0. After a barren first half, Samson Olasupo broke the deadlock for the home side in the 59th minute to end Wikki Tourists’ three-match unbeaten run.