The Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), Mr. Bello Hassan has said the corporation is working to ensure more Microfinance Banks (MFBs) are on the National Association of Microfinance Banks Unified Information Technology (NAMBUIT) to enhance resolutions in an event of failure. He said this yesterday in his keynote address at the Editors’ Forum where the corporation gathered senior editors of media outlets to discuss “Deposit Insurance System (DIS) and Financial System Stability.” He noted that the NAMBUIT platform which provides uniform banking application to all the Microfinance Banks (MFBs) is to facilitate easy submission of returns to the CBN and NDIC foresees an increase of MFBs getting onboard this year. He also noted that another initiative targeted at MFBs, the Single Customer View (SCV) reporting template, would address challenges of delays in the payment of their depositors in the event of their failure and liquidation of Microfinance and Primary Mortgage banks. Orakam community association to spend N67.5m on 450 indigents Before implementing park and pay policy He said: “In terms of supervision, the Corporation in collaboration with the CBN adopted a risk-based approach to ensure that the monitoring of financial institutions provides a more nuanced assessment of the activities of the financial institutions based on certain risk indicators. This ensures that any potential threats can proactively be flagged and appropriate regulatory/supervisory action taken.” if(typeof ez_ad_units != 'undefined'){ez_ad_units.push([[468,60],'dailytrust_com-box-4','ezslot_3',151,'0','0'])};__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-dailytrust_com-box-4-0');“The Corporation, in 2022 deployed the Single Customer View (SCV) reporting template to Microfinance and Primary Mortgage banks, in order to address challenges of delays in the payment of their depositors in the event of their failure and liquidation. “SCV presents single, unique and consistent information on bank depositors for faster pay-out of insured claims. Similarly, the Corporation in collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has been working on the National Association of Microfinance Banks Unified Information Technology (NAMBUIT) platform, which provides uniform banking application to all the Microfinance Banks (MFBs) to facilitate easy submission of returns to the CBN and NDIC. At end-December 2022, the NAMBUIT platform had on-boarded quite a significant number of the MFBs and the number is expected to increase considerably this year.” 