President Muhammadu Buhari held another meeting with Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, at the State House, Abuja, on Monday. This is Emefiele’s third private meeting with the President since the cash crunch crisis escalated across the country. He didn’t not speak to journalists after the meeting. Daily Trust, however, learnt that the agenda of the meeting might not be far from efforts to find solution to the cash crisis.
26,500 people petition Chrisland School over death of 12-year-old student The raging controversy over the implementation of the new currency redesign policy has not subsided. Last Friday, the Council of State had backed the new currency redesign policy but advised the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to ensure the availability of naira notes to douse tension and ameliorate the suffering of citizens across the country. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, governors Darius Ishaku of Taraba State and Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, as well as the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, had briefed State House reporters on the key issues after the Council meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Ishaku had said the CBN governor was advised to make new naira notes available or re-circulate old ones to ease the suffering of Nigerians. He, however, added that the president would take a final decision, having received advice from members of the Council of State. Daily Trust learnt that the President did not announce any major decision again after the meeting on Friday following the expiration of the deadline given to stop the usage of old notes because of the pending suits before the Supreme Court by not less than five state governments over the currency redesign policy which had led to the scarcity of currency notes. Adesina, while reacting to a question on the deadline set for the policy, said, “The deadline is a judicial matter.”
Malami, however, gave assurance that President Buhari would be guided by the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians. He added that though the matter is in court, both parties were still open to an amicable resolution. The Council of State had advised the apex bank to either make new naira notes available or re-circulate old ones to ease the suffering of Nigerians