The African Union Development Agency/New Partnership for Africa’s Development (AUDA-NEPAD) has sued for a violence-free conduct in this year’s general elections. The National Coordinator, AUDA-NEPAD, Princess Gloria Akobundu, made the call Wednesday in Abuja while speaking at the zonal sensitization on violence-free elections. Akobundu described the violence-free election sensitization as timely and critical towards the upcoming general elections, judging from the tension-induced elements that have pervaded the environment and are still persisting and waxing stronger. She said, “If left unchecked and unmanaged, it could be a cause for great concern. Election violence induces fear of physical injury and actual loss of life, resulting in psychological effects on individuals and society which are resultant impacts expected from fraud, vote-buying and other varieties of electoral manipulation. Elections: Naira scarcity may encourage vote buying – Yiaga Africa ‘Treason’: Security agencies will determine El-Rufai, Ganduje, others’ fate – Malami “The Second Country Report of the Federal Republic of Nigeria strongly recommended the need for collaborative efforts in addressing challenges that are escalating conflicts and violence in the country through early warning mechanism, which includes advocacy, negotiation and sensitization. Notably, Electoral Violence has been a reccurring problem and threat to achieving democracy and good governance in Nigeria and Africa at large. “This challenge is inimical to democracy and efforts must be made to combat it. African Union has currently expressed serious concern in elections and political transitions which often pose serious threats to the unity and stability of member states and Nigeria inclusive.” Akobundu commended President Muhammadu Buhari, the governors of the 36 states and the FCT Minister, the security agencies, and others for their cooperation and support during the nationwide country self-assessment and validation exercise. She further urged all stakeholders to blow the trumpet of no violence during elections.